TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
On the founding of Imladris	leodesic	2023-12-21	2023-12-21	11,300	1/1	44	303	25	2,535

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Teen And Up Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien, The Lord of the Rings - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Celebrían/Elrond Peredhel, Celebrían & Galadriel | Artanis, Elrond Peredhel & Ereinion Gil-galad, Elrond Peredhel & Galadriel | Artanis	Elrond Peredhel, Celebrían (Tolkien), Ereinion Gil-galad, Galadriel (Tolkien), Celeborn (Tolkien)	Romance, Humor, Grief/Mourning, Fluff, Second Age of Arda (Tolkien), Rivendell | Imladris (Tolkien), Feanorian Elrond, Quenya, Minor Character Death, all character death is canon and offscreen, Getting Together, Celebrian POV, Foreshadowing, background Kidnap Dads

SUMMARY
Galadriel then explained the shift that had taken place in Quenya over time. The transition from “th” to “s” was most significant, but there were other sounds that had drifted, too, and everything in the way she spoke marked her as learning from a Fëanorian. Celebrían laughed with delight when she learnt the truth. This was worth at least three pages of teasing in her next letter to Elrond and she told her mother as such. She did not tell her mother that she thought Elrond’s accent was terribly attractive, but she had a horrible feeling her mother guessed anyway.

 

Celebrían meets Elrond, who still proudly identifies with the House and family that raised him, and immediately falls in love to the horror and amusement of everyone around them. It still takes them a millennia to get together.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
On the founding of Imladris


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
The third part in a series focusing on a kidnap-fam style Elrond raised by Maglor & Maedhros who loved them very much and was stubborn enough not to let go of that. Previous entries include perspectives from Gil-galad and Celebrimbor.

Canonically, Celebrían + Galadriel should probably be in Lothlorien right now, but they did pass back through Khazad-dum and dwell “for a time” in Rivendell, so we’re taking a very generous definition of “for a time” here.


CHAPTER 1
When Celebrían was a little girl, her father had told her stories of the horrors from before she was born. She had clung onto his every word, listening to tales of orcs and kinslayers and other wretched beasts until her mother came to put her away to bed, chasing away any fears with a smile and a few words. The last thing she had expected when visiting her childhood home was to find Eregion filled with scarred, grim soldiers who bore the eight-pointed star as proudly as the High King’s banner. High King Gil-galad had sent a Fëanorian lord to defend the city against the Enemy, and while others marched with him, the Fëanorians in the city were impossible to ignore. People avoided them in the street and spat their names as if they were a curse. Only their lord was able to walk through the city without harassment, but everywhere he went he was shadowed by at least one of his people. Whispers spread that they watched him everywhere he went, even in his sleep (though why people seemed so horrified by such rumours, Celebrían did not know).

Then Ost-in-Edhil was besieged, and “those kinslayers” became “the king’s soldiers” and their best defence against the new rising evil. Command of the retreat fell squarely on the shoulders of the king’s Fëanorian lord. It seemed as if he were everywhere at once, his voice calm and steady even though his face was grim. One moment he was by the vanguard, coordinating what cavalry they had to break through the enemy’s lines and cut a path for the civilians of the city to retreat; a moment later, Celebrían saw him go galloping by to the rear, where his own folk held the line against an endless flow of orcs. But he was by far at his most brilliant and most terrible when the push forward stalled. A pale Man clad in black laughed at them.

“You think you can deny Lord Sauron’s will?”

For one dreadful moment, Celebrían thought their leader may spontaneously combust. He made a few curt gestures with his hands, passing orders to his men, then leapt into the fray himself, screaming a war-cry in Quenya and jumping into the fray. Celebrían was terribly impressed, but her mother only sighed.

“If I die after hearing war declared in the name of Celebrimbor and Nelyafinwë, I will hunt Elrond down in the Halls of Mandos and send him to the void with his damn father.”

But their leader, Elrond, cut his way through to the captain, followed closely by his soldiers, and sliced his head clean off. With no leader, the orcs were not half so organized, and the push forward became easier. When Durin’s folk arrived from Khazad-dûm to reinforce them, they broke free and fled for the mountains. The entire time, Elrond was with them, shepherding them along and collecting the lost.

Once they had cleared the scene of the battle and reached the foothills of the mountains, Elrond sent forth sorties in search of places to settle and await reinforcement. He himself made rounds of the train of the refugees, offering healing to any who needed it and making sure especially that children were being cared for. On the first night, they found no suitable place to settle, so they camped by a river and set a guard. Elrond’s soldiers set camp with practised ease, first digging the latrines and setting up what meagre defences they could for the night.

At dawn on the second day, Elrond called together his military commanders and civilian representatives from the disparate groups that had gathered under his banner. When the meeting came to an end, their destination had been decided. Elrond spoke of a valley to the northeast in the foothills of the mountains, naturally hidden by the moors and supplied by fresh water by a swift river. There they could hide, he told them, until relief came from Lindon or Númenor. Imladris would be a home to them for as long as they needed it to be.

The road north was long, but not as hard as Celebrían had feared it would be. Elrond’s garrison had prepared for the retreat, and although the civilians had little in the way of supplies, the soldiers provided them with lembas and water and medicine. Elrond himself could be seen wending his way up and down the column, apparently determined to speak with every refugee in his care, breaking only when he needed to attend to the soldiers at his command.

Once all the refugees were secured in the valley, Elrond’s people began again their building, this time with much more ambition. Hygiene and medical needs were looked to first, as well as defence, but this time they intended much of what they built to endure, and so they made it beautiful, also. The defence towers that appeared overlooking the narrow path into the valley were as elegant as any Celebrían had seen in Eregion and were as well suited to picnicking under the stars as defending the frightened elves within. The soldiers worked with almost childlike glee. More than once, Celebrían saw them chase down their lord with a new idea, begging for his approval or outright arguing about some plan or other. Whatever they brought to him, he answered it with a patient smile.

Once the camp itself was organized, Elrond assigned himself the task of healer and disappeared into the medical tent. He did not emerge until the stars were out. As soon as he appeared, Celebrían saw one of his soldiers shove a bowl of hot food into his hands and point towards the fire. Celebrían bit her lip to keep from laughing. Her shoulders began to shake when he sighed and nodded, and her amusement gave way to outright giggling when the soldier straightened his armour and wiped a smudge of dirt off his face before letting him go. Having seen him in battle, she knew he could be fey and terrible, but it seemed those who knew him had no fear of him.

That night, Celebrían lay on the meagre bedroll she had been afforded and looked to at the stars. She could not sleep. Flashes from the past few days played over and over in her mind, and out of nowhere, she felt a stab of anger towards her father. How dare he tell her stories of kinslayers and orcs as if they were nothing more than stories? Didn’t he know what it looked like when an orc hewed a child in two? Hadn’t he ever heard the discordant sound of their jeering? But it was the Fëanorians and Durin’s folk who had bought them time to flee, though both had paid dearly for the escape. Her father disliked both groups, but though they were strange, she was no longer convinced that was a reason to dislike them.

A voice drifted through the trees. Celebrían felt her fears drift away as the voice sang in a language she did not know. Though she was in a strange valley far from Lothlórien, she felt as safe as she did in her bed at home. Her last thought before she fell asleep was that the owner of the voice must be terribly beautiful to be able to sing so.

The next day, Lord Elrond approached her mother and bowed.

“Lady Galadriel, good morning. It is an honour to meet you at last, although I wish the circumstances were kinder. And – I am afraid I have not had the pleasure of being introduced to your companion?”

“My daughter, Celebrían.”

Taking her cue, Celebrían gave a small curtsy. Elrond bowed to her in turn. “I am sorry you were both caught in the fall of the city. I hope you will be able to return to your home soon. In the meantime, I have come to ask for your aid. There is more that must be done than can me done by my soldiers alone, and I am asking each person in camp what they might be able to do to help make our position here stronger.”

“You would put us to work?” Galadriel asked. The strange light in her eyes seemed to brighten, and though she was her mother, even Celebrían felt a small chill. Elrond, apparently, had no such common sense, because he simply looked Galadriel in the eyes and said,

“I am asking you to help in whatever way seems best to you. We are stronger if we work together.”

A slow smile spread over Galadriel’s face. “I will see to the weaving and the dying of cloth. Send to me any weavers you can find.”

Relief broke out on Elrond’s face. “Bandages. Can you make bandages?”

“We will see to it,” Galadriel said dismissively, and they did. She and Celebrían set to weaving immediately, working not just the cloth but thinking always of healing and safety and all things associated with recovery. Over the course of the day, Elrond sent others to them and Galadriel put them to work, but none produced any work that carried intent the way their craft did. When they finally sent for Elrond to collect their work, he looked at Galadriel and Celebrían both with tears in his eyes.

“With these, I can save at least one life that would have been lost, if not more. Thank you.”

Once she was sure he was out of earshot, Celebrían decided to risk an observation. “Adar always taught me kinslayers were monsters.”

Her mother flinched. “Kinslayer and Fëanorian are not synonyms. Elrond Peredhel has killed no elves.”

Celebrían considered this information, integrating it with her observations of the other Fëanorians in the camp, and said, “The others are not so dreadful, either. They helped us in Eregion. Maybe the First Age should stay in the First Age.”

At that, Galadriel embraced her daughter, though it was many years before Celebrían learnt why.

Their days fell into a rhythm. By day, Celebrían and her mother wove cloth. First they wove bandages, then blankets, then tents. Around them, the camp turned into the skeleton of a city. Plans were made for a great house that would fit all their people, and while Elrond and his architects spoke of it as a house, Celebrían noticed it had but one entrance via a narrow bridge, much like the Bridge of Khazad-dum. At night, Celebrían slept fitfully until the strange, soothing singing echoed through the forest and lulled her to sleep. But after many nights passed in this manner, Celebrían’s curiosity got the better of her. Instead of letting the sound lull her to sleep, she sat up. After confirming her mother was safely asleep, she slipped away from the camp and made her way towards the voice.

It was a fair night, Celebrían thought. The moon was bright and high in the sky, and it seemed to her that Eärendil shone even brighter than usual. The voice grew louder and clearer with each step she took, until at last she stepped into a clearing and saw an elf with hair as dark as night, singing even as he played his harp and danced. Celebrían’s heart lifted at the sight. Her first thought was that he was the most beautiful elf she had ever seen. Then he turned, and she realized the singer was Elrond, and she did not change her mind about his beauty.

Elrond missed a note on the harp and cut off his song. In the sudden silence, Celebrían could hear the forest echo with crickets and the flow of the river and the sounds of other night-time creatures. Elrond took a small step back as if to flee, then stopped and said,

“I apologize, my lady. I did not mean to disturb you.”

Celebrían meant to protest that she had not been disturbed, but then a cloud passed from before the moon, and in the sudden light, she saw shadows under Elrond’s eyes. For the first time, she remembered his schedule, and to her enduring horror she heard herself ask,

“Don’t you ever sleep?”

Thankfully, Elrond laughed instead of taking offence. “An hour or two each night. I can afford no more. I do not sing for pleasure, though it does bring me more joy than most of my tasks. It was through music that my father taught me to change the Music of the world, just as you weave things you love into the cloth you make. I am asking Imladris to protect us.”

“Asking?” Celebrían echoed. It was easier to focus on that, she decided, than the idea that her lord and would-be-love could sing the world into shape like a hero from one of her favourite ballads. Elrond flashed a smile at her. Unlike the smiles she had seen in public, this one was filled with mischief, and he replied,

“I find it’s more effective than telling.”

Suddenly bold, Celebrían looked at him through her eyelashes and said, “Then may I ask you to sing for me?”

Without waiting for an answer, she settled herself down on the grass and looked at him expectantly. The movement, at very least, spared her from having to see the rejection in his face. By the time she looked at him, his expression was merely thoughtful.

“Do you have any particular requests?”

Celebrían shook her head. “I don’t speak – it’s Quenya you’re singing in, isn’t it? Adar disapproves of Quenya.”

“It is Quenya, yes,” Elrond said. His mouth twisted into a crooked smile and he settled himself on the ground opposite her, leaning back against a tree. “Very well. I will choose something appropriate.”

With a strum of his harp, Elrond began to sing. At first, Celebrían tried to pick out individual words, hoping against hope she could divine meaning from the song, but it was not long before she was swept away by Elrond’s voice and the sweet, aching tune he sang. Whatever the song was, it lifted her heart and made a smile break out onto her face. Had she any dignity, she would have blushed at how she stared at Elrond, transfixed by the motion of his hands and the sight of his dark eyes looking back at her.

One song led to a second, then a third. It was not until dawn peeked above the valley that they came back to themselves. The blood drained from Elrond’s face, and he halted mid-chorus. He stared at Celebrían with something like fear in his eyes.

“My lady?”

Celebrían blinked a few times, yawned, then lay out on the grass and stretched. “Oh, Mother is going to be such a beast when I show up and want to sleep! I don’t suppose you can make excuses for me?”

“I am not sure that would be wise,” Elrond said. Celebrían made a rude gesture at him and called him several foul names besides. She was not at all pleased when it only made him smile. As a concession, he said,

“I will tell her all that transpired. I do not think she will be harsh with you after that.”

It was the best she was likely to get, so Celebrían agreed. Together they got to their feet and made their way back to camp. They found Galadriel by Celebrían’s bed, and the look she sent Elrond when they approached would have caused an entire army to turn and flee. In a voice like ice, she said,

“Elrond. Is there a reason the enchantment you have been laying feels different this morning?”

Elrond answered in Quenya, his eyes wide with the same fear Celebrían had seen at dawn. Fear started to grow in Celebrían’s gut, but with each word Elrond spoke, the fury on her mother’s face faded. After nearly two full minutes of Elrond’s frantic explanation, Galadriel put a hand on his shoulder and said,

“Even your father could not have done what you fear, despite what rumours may say otherwise. Didn’t he ever teach you that?”

“Oh,” Elrond said, and he flushed and looked to the ground, cringing in visible embarrassment. “No. He and Atto left before he had a chance.”

Galadriel sighed, for once sounding every one of her thousands of years of age. “Yes, that sounds like them. I promise you, then, that the worst you have done is humiliate yourself in front of me. I think that is rather sufficient punishment for the rest.”

Elrond bowed and beat a hasty retreat. Unable to help herself, Celebrían asked,

“What was it he feared?”

It was rare for Galadriel to hesitate, but she did so now. At length, she said, “He is relatively untrained. He feared he had done you harm.”

“You’re not telling me the full story,” Celebrían accused.

“No,” Galadriel said, her expression softening. “I’ll tell you in a millennia or so.”

*

Celebrían left Elrond alone that night, but the very next day, she tracked him down and said, “I want to learn Quenya.”

Eagerness gleamed in his eyes, but he did nothing more but smile and say, “Perhaps your lady mother? Quenya is her mother tongue.”

“My mother never speaks Quenya unless addressed in it. You use it all the time,” Celebrían countered. Both statements were true, but they had nothing to do with her true motivations. Quenya lessons would buy her more time with him and, in time, remove the ability for people to speak in front of her without her understanding. Elrond, fortunately, bought the lie and inclined his head.

“One of my captains insists I keep half an hour free after dinner for myself. I would be delighted to spend it with you, my lady.”

She held him to his word, chasing him down after dinner that very night. Elrond led her to the part of the camp where he kept his belongings and invited her to take a seat.

“Many say both Sindarin and Quenya use the same alphabet, though strictly speaking, the Sindarin mode of tengwar should be counted as its own alphabet for the ordering of the vowels and the naming of the letters. However, the sounds of the consonants themselves are broadly consistent, so learning them both is not too hard.”

He then took a slim book of poetry from his belongings and flipped through it until he found a short poem with lots of repetition. To Celebrían’s delight, he sat beside her to work through it, though he kept a proper distance the entire time. When the half-hour came to an end, he seemed reluctant to leave.

“You have your work, I know. And I will come to hear you sing, later!” Celebrían told him. Any reluctance he had vanished, and Elrond all but fled. But when she went to him at night under the stars, he smiled, and the tune of the song he sang turned sweet and welcoming.

*

Imladris grew around them. And even though war raged outside the valley, Celebrían walked as if in a dream, her happiness stunted only by the careful distance Elrond kept between them. Celebrían’s frustration grew each day. At times, he looked at her with what seemed to be barely-contained passion, and she thought he might break all propriety and kiss her there, but at others, she despaired entirely, convinced she could dance naked in front of him and he would not so much as notice.

But after two years, a lucky orc found a crack in Elrond’s enchantments. The secret of Imladris was out. Scarcely a month after their discovery, the siege began. The graceful towers along the road turned to small fortresses from which archers could pick off invading soldiers, though it was widely accepted taking such a job was a suicide mission. Most quailed from the duty, but the Fëanorians did not. They marched out to the towers in groups of twenty and took up position, knowing they would not see their kin again until the siege broke.

Once the towers were manned, Elrond ordered the people taken over the narrow bridge and behind such walls as there were, and that they should block their ears. Celebrían listened to the first instruction, but not the latter. Instead, she peaked from behind a wall as Elrond lifted not his sword, but his harp. Though Celebrían’s Quenya lessons were slow, she knew enough to recognize it was a war-song and a challenge. The narrow bridge shook and fell. When she turned her eyes upwards, she saw a great sheet of ice slide down one of the mountains, and a few minutes later, the river was a dangerous, flooding torrent, sweeping away men and orcs alike. Beside her, her mother sighed.

“Well, at least his fathers taught him something .”

“Will you tell me what he sings of?” Celebrían asked. Her mother gave her a very stern look that suggested she knew exactly why Celebrían asked, but when Celebrían flinched at the sound of an orc-horn, she stroked her hair and told her of one of Elrond’s fathers. To Celebrían’s astonishment, he had been raised by one of the monsters from the tales her father had told her when she was a child. But for all the stories she had heard of his cruelty and his power, her father had never told her of his hatred for Sauron or the fear the servants of the Enemies had for him. When she questioned the wisdom of several decisions he made, her mother explained,

“When Fëanorians lose their tempers they make foolish decisions. Building his fortress on the edge of Morgoth’s land was an act of defiance.”

“He was taunting him,” Celebrían concluded, awed despite the judgement dripping from her tone. A few moments later, she put together the words with the song and realized, “Elrond is taunting them.”

“It is somewhere between a taunt and a threat, to be precise.”

“Is that wise?” Celebrían asked, even as she thought that it was very brave. Galadriel sighed.

“No. But it is very Fëanorian of him.”

*

The siege lasted for two days. Even sheltering with the other refugees, Celebrían knew when relief had come by the shout that came from Elrond. The sound of the battle in the valley was dreadful, but at length, the orcs were driven away or killed. A rope bridge was tied to allow the elves to cross. Many of them hesitated to cross when they saw their saviours were Men, but Elrond did not. He was across the bridge in a flash. The leader of the men stepped forward to introduce himself, but before he could, Elrond threw himself at him and pulled him into a fierce hug. It was several moments before he let go, and from across the bridge, Celebrían heard clearly:

“I knew you would come! You are of Elros’ line, yes?”

The severity on the Man’s face disappeared as he stared in Elrond in open befuddlement. “You – I am descended from Tar-Minyatur, but” –

Elrond laughed and hugged him again. “He was always getting me out of trouble. Or into trouble, come to think of it. And you have the exact same expression he always did when bracing himself for diplomacy.”

“You cannot be Lord Elrond?” the Man said, in the same tone Celebrían might have used if she had met Fingon The Valiant or some other great hero from the First Age. Elrond beamed at him and said something too quiet to be heard.

The Númenorians stayed in the valley for a day. The day was spent recovering from the battle, trading supplies with the people of Imladris, and watching Elrond with something like awe as he went to and fro, tending to the wounded until he nearly collapsed from exhaustion. When the time came for them to leave, Elrond and a large part of the army went with them, although they did leave a garrison behind.

“Do not fear. We will give Sauron plenty more to think of!” Elrond promised them. “With the king’s leave, I will return once the battle is done to make Imladris my home.”

The army would march south, clearing the way to Khazad-dûm by coincidence. The moment scouts reported the roads were clear, Celebrían and her mother made ready to leave. Before she left, Celebrían wrote a letter to Elrond and approached one of the red-robed Fëanorians who had been charged with protecting Imladris in his absence. Even now, most elves seemed to avoid them, but Celebrían stepped up to the scarred warrior without fear and said,

“Excuse me? You’re one of Lord Elrond’s people, yes? I saw you scold him one night for trying to skip dinner.”

“I am,” the Fëanorian said. This close, she could see they had the same strange light her mother carried in her eyes, and their face was marred with many scars. “What can I do for you, my lady?”

“Could you pass this letter to Lord Elrond?”

To Celebrían’s surprise, the Fëanorian soldier’s face lit up. They took the letter and bowed. “It would be my honour. Elrond will be delighted.”

“He will?” Celebrían asked excitedly, then flushed at the sideways look she got in response. But rather than lashing out as most would expect a Fëanorian to, they only asked,

“Did you include instructions for him to write back?”

Celebrían confirmed that she had, which won her a nod of approval. Before they could converse further, however, her mother called, so she said her goodbyes and thanked the soldier again for their help.

*

“Why is there a letter marked with a Fëanorian star on my table?”

Celebrían had never heard such ice-cold disgust in her father’s voice. It was not enough to stop her lunging for the letter and snatching it away before anyone else could break the seal, clutching it to her chest and glaring at her father.

“It’s mine!”

Celeborn’s eyes snapped over to hers and Celebrían looked back, lifting her chin in defiance. It was easy to be brave with Elrond’s letter in hand.

“He serves High King Gil-galad. I bid him to write me.”

Without waiting for an answer, Celebrían stormed from the room and retreated to her quarters. There she threw herself on the bed with a huff and glared out the window. But it was not long before her mood gentled and she pulled out the letter once more, delighting in how heavy it was and how many pages must be contained therein. The wax seal, as her father had noted, was red, marked with an eight-pointed star. Celebrían traced her fingers over it and bit her lip, grinning. It was odd to think that the same symbol that had once haunted her nightmares now made her eager and bright, but knowing it was Elrond’s mark changed everything.

At length she broke the seal and removed several pages of elegant tengwar. The first few pages discussed his movements and politics, but he also indulged Celebrían’s request for more instruction in Quenya. He had copied out a poem in both Sindarin and Quenya and spent two full pages comparing the translations, drawing her attention to differences in the alphabet, changes in the rhyming scheme and how each language subtly changed the theme of the poem. As hungry as she was for knowledge, it was the sheer enthusiasm in the letter that made Celebrían laugh with delight. She loved Lothlórien, but there were few there who shared her passion for books. At last, she had found a companion who could match her enthusiasm for the written word.

She read the letter three times over before she began to write her reply. When finished, it was no shorter than Elrond’s had been. She sealed it with the mark of her house and stepped out of her room to find her father standing by her door, looking somewhat sheepish.

“Your mother said I have to apologize.”

“You can start by getting me a messenger to Imladris,” Celebrían said, and her father winced.

“I will. I just – Celebrían, my daughter, you did not see the First Age. I do not want to see you hurt.”

“That is not an apology,” Celebrían observed. “Have you even met him?”

From the sheepish grimace that passed across her father’s face, she knew that he had not. Sensing weakness, she continued,

“Do you not trust High King Gil-galad’s judgement? Lord Elrond is deep in his council and speaks of him with great affection.”

“I had heard rumours claiming as much, but one holds out hope the King of the Noldor will be wiser than his predecessors,” Celeborn said with a sigh.

For most of her life, Celebrían had thought very little about the distinction between different groups of elves. But in Imladris, she had seen that there were different peoples among the elves, and that under the right leadership, that made them stronger. She thought of the little she had learnt of the Noldor from Elrond during their Quenya lessons, and though she had no doubt they were a flawed people, for the first time she saw herself and her mother in them. It was that, as much as anything else, that made her turn and march away.

Many weeks passed before Celebrían and her father reconciled. She did not yield until she had a proper apology from him, even if it was driven by her mother. By that point, her letter had (with any luck) passed over the mountains and perhaps even reached its destination. But though her anger towards her father had cooled, she did not in truth entirely forgive him. After reflecting on her childhood, she went to her mother and asked,

“Why did father ban me from learning Quenya?”

In response, her mother ordered tea prepared. The two of them sat on a sunlit balcony, sipping lightly-scented tea in silence, until at length Galadriel spoke.

“The history of the Noldor is long and dark. When we abandoned the West, we did not do so peacefully, and much blood was shed that should not have been spilled. When we arrived in Beleriand, we brought much that was good, but we brought war also. Of all who petitioned King Thingol for entry to Doriath, only myself and my brother were granted entry, and it was there I met your father. We are old, Celebrían. There is a reason my heart turns to the Sea, even if I cannot cross it.”

“I know, Mother,” Celebrían said as gently as she could, putting her hand over Galadriel’s. But she was unable to keep youthful impertinence at bay entirely, and added, “The First Age was terrible and everyone died, I have been told that before.”

“And every day, I thank the Valar that you do not understand it,” Galadriel said, pulling her into an embrace. “To know of it is one thing, but to understand it would be another thing entirely.”

“I would know more if you had taught me properly,” Celebrían said bitterly.

“Yes. Your father should not have let his dislike of the Noldor affect you and I should have realized you were old enough to learn. Will you forgive me?”

Celebrían agreed, then begged immediately for history lessons. To her delight, her mother obliged, scheduling twice weekly lessons on the history of her people. To her amusement, she began with language, taking her slowly through the Quenya mode of tengwar, thinking she had never learnt it before. But when Celebrían began to read aloud with confidence and ease, her eyes widened and her mouth opened in a mask of horror. Celebrían trailed off. Her brow furrowed together as she stared at her mother, her delight at showing off fading by the second. What mistake could she have made to earn such a dreadful reaction?

“Is my accent that bad?” she asked tentatively. “Lord Elrond always praised my efforts. Was he just being kind?”

“Elrond,” her mother echoed, shaking her head. “Elrond! You could not have taken better revenge on your father and I for not teaching you if you had planned it.”

“Mother!” Celebrían protested. Her hand flew to her heart as her mind raced, wondering what Elrond could have taught her that was so dreadful.

“It is our own fault,” Galadriel said. The dreadful shock on her face had given way to something like amusement, though there was still an underlying current of sorrow that Celebrían longed to chase away. “You have his accent, you know. And he speaks just as his fathers did.”

Galadriel then explained the shift that had taken place in Quenya over time. The transition from “th” to “s” was most significant, but there were other sounds that had drifted, too, and everything in the way she spoke marked her as learning from a Fëanorian. Celebrían laughed with delight when she learnt the truth. This was worth at least three pages of teasing in her next letter to Elrond and she told her mother as such. She did not tell her mother that she thought Elrond’s accent was terribly attractive, but she had a horrible feeling her mother guessed anyway. Galadriel let out a long sigh.

“You are nearly as embarrassing as he is. I pity the people of Imladris.”

*

Many years drifted by. In time, Celebrían received an invitation to visit Imladris. According to Elrond’s letters, it was no longer a refugee camp but a haven for elves, Men, dwarves, and all good folk with good intent. Over the years, he had included many drawings of his home in his letters, and Celebrían practically bounced on the spot with excitement at the idea of seeing it in person. When she told her parents of the invitation, they exchanged a look.

“I’m going. I do not trust the Fëanorian,” Celeborn said. At the same time, Galadriel declared,

“You’re going. I refuse to endure them a second time.”

And so, to their mutual despair, Celeborn and Celebrían set out for Imladris.

*

The moment Celebrían set foot in Imladris once more, a shiver of delight went down her spine. Her father looked faintly nauseous. It was not an unusual reaction to strong enchantments, and Celebrían had seen more than a few people react in such a way to her mother’s land, but it was strange to see the same look on her father’s face.

“It is stronger than when mother and I left,” she observed. Celeborn’s face soured further. As they ventured deeper into the valley, she pointed out the towers that had been built for their defence. A small graveyard had appeared by one tower that had been breached, and Celebrían insisted on taking the time to pay her respects at each grave.

Where there had once been a camp there now stood a great House, beautiful and resplendent and all but radiating comfort. The graceful stone towers seemed to make shadows dance across the valley, and all throughout the building plants had been encouraged to grow. As Celebrían and her father approached, the main door to the house opened. It was the first time Celebrían had seen him wear anything other than armour, but now that she had seen him in robes of blue and gold she decided the armour had done him no favours. He looked magnificent standing there, as regal as any king Celebrían had ever met. He greeted them courteously, too, bowing to her father and inviting them both inside.

“I hope Lady Celebrían will find our hospitality much improved from her last visit,” he said, showing them both to a large, spacious suite of rooms overlooking the gardens in the southern guest wing. Celebrían laughed and gave him a sly look.

“I don’t know, Lord Elrond, I rather enjoyed the music.”

She delighted in the way Elrond’s gracious mask shattered for a moment at that, his eyes widening a little and his mouth twitching into a smile. There was mischief in his eyes as he said,

“We have far more accomplished bards here now, I assure you. They have actually trained to be musicians.”

“And if I asked for my favourite singer?”

“Whatever my lady asks for, I will endeavour to provide,” Elrond said, inclining his head. He then fled the room, leaving them to recover from their journey. Her father sent a disgusted look after him.

“Your mother is laughing at me right now, I just know it,” he said, though Celebrían did not have the faintest idea as to why.

*

Over the coming days, Celebrían had the delight of learning what Elrond was like in peacetime. In place of his armour he wore robes in many different colours, though he favoured chiefly red as both the colour of his house and, he admitted, his favourite colour.

“It is fortunate it flatters you so well, then,” Celebrían said. Elrond accused her of flattery, but he did not manage to entirely keep from smiling. Even better, Celebrían noticed red and other warm tones featured more prominently in his wardrobe after that. Her father grumbled, muttering about Fëanorian arrogance, and Celebrían decided not to correct him. Something told her he would be no happier about the truth.

In place of commanding troops, he saw to the needs of his people and his guests. There was an endless rotation of guests through the House of Elrond, and although all were greeted courteously and marvelled at the wonders they saw, none received half the honour Celebrían herself was given. When not tending to his duties, Elrond sought Celebrían out for discussion, or to walk through Imladris’ forests, or to retreat to the library with her and read poetry together.

The library in Imladris was a wonder. Elrond himself was a scholar, collecting any book he could find, but he also made sure every book was available to any who wanted to read it. Celebrían used the opportunity to seek out books either unavailable in Lothlórien or books she knew or suspected her parents would have disapproved of her reading. The closest thing she found in Imladris to such an approval system was a note slipped in the front of one history book warning that it was a highly biased account that the reader should consider in context with other sources.

When Elrond was not available, those of the House of Elrond, and especially those whose clothing marked them as the House of Fëanor also, seemed determined to satisfy her every whim. The Fëanorians did so with a particular and very peculiar humour, but Celebrían did not judge it harmful. The soldier she had passed her letter to pulled her aside and took great delight in telling her of Elrond’s excitement at each letter he received. A grim looking elf missing one leg sat her down in the gardens and told her bluntly who Elrond’s chosen family was, as if she did not already know. When she told him as much, he nodded and then passed her a tray filled with almond pastries.

“These are his favourite. He’s in the study.”

Bemused, Celebrían took the hint (and the pastries) and left for Elrond’s study.

However pleasant Celebrían found the House of Elrond, her father could not have found it more disagreeable. He grit his teeth at the sight of Elrond in red, apparently convinced it was some kind of insult. He was discomforted by the mixing of elves with both each other and other races, for humans and dwarves both came through Imladris regularly. When Celebrían started mentioning Fëanorian soldiers as friends, he advised her to stay away from them for her own good, and she laughed.

“Kinslaying and kidnapping, that was what your stories always said they did. Well, no one is going to harm me here. Or do you think they are going to steal me away?”

“One of them already has,” Celeborn said grimly. Celebrían snorted and shook her head, determined not to understand what her father was implying, and left him to his brooding. But he insisted they leave the very next day. Elrond was dismayed to see them go and said so, riding with them to the borders of his land and bidding Celebrían to write him as soon as she was home safe.

*

Celebrían and Elrond exchanged letters and visits over many centuries. She wrote, too, to other friends she made in Imladris over time, but none of them as frequently as she wrote Elrond.

It was not until her third visit that she was permitted to go without parental supervision. It was also the first time her visit coincided with the presence of High King Gil-galad. Celebrían had been introduced to the king at formal gatherings, but they had never spoken, and when she arrived in Imladris and learned he was there she assumed that much, at least, would not change.

She was not prepared for the High King to be present when she called on Elrond in his study the afternoon she arrived. Panic bolted through her, though she did her best to hide it. She had not dressed to meet the king, instead choosing a dress that had caused Elrond’s eyes to linger on her form just a moment longer than was proper. When she appeared in the door, the king leapt to his feet from where he had been reclining on a lounge. Worse still, when Elrond attempted to introduce her, the king interrupted with a grin, bowed to her and kissed her hand, declaring,

“So this is the Lady Celebrían you cannot stop writing me about.”

“Gil-galad!” Elrond hissed, as if he were dealing with an unruly sibling and not the High King.

“What?” Gil-galad said. “Elros told me to take care of you. And if he is not here to embarrass you as he would, then I shall do so in his stead.”

“I should’ve usurped you years ago,” Elrond said bitterly. Celebrían felt as if her heart plunged into ice, not sure what was more dreadful: the implicit treason, or the fact that it was Elrond who had spoken the words. But Gil-galad only laughed.

“I’ve been trying to make you my heir for centuries. It’s like you don’t even want the crown.” He then turned to Celebrían and said, “Take note, my lady! Here stands one whose sole desires are to heal the sick and drive his loved ones to distraction.”

Elrond pinched the bridge of his nose and muttered a very explicit curse in Quenya before turning to Celebrían. “Lady Celebrían, I apologize. Gil-galad knows from my letters I count you as a friend and has, apparently, forgotten that you do not have the benefit or knowledge of our long history together. I was delivered to his camp in the final days of the War of Wrath.”

It was then Celebrían put it together, and her face lit up with joy as she realized they had only been teasing one another. “If you are going to be like this all the time, then you must tell me some stories!”

Gil-galad laughed in delight. “Oh, I like you!”

Elrond called for food to be brought and the three of them sat on the balcony, drinking wine and telling tales of Elrond’s youth. To Celebrían’s astonishment, Elrond had once been accused of attempting to usurp Gil-galad, though the accusation had been baseless, and all that had come of it was a lifelong series of jokes that tended to alarm anyone who overheard them.

“After all, the Lord of House of Fëanor was not a dreadful enough reputation for me,” Elrond said drily.

“You brought that upon yourself,” Gil-galad said sternly, pointing to him. “I told you what people would do if you tied yourself to that House.”

“And as I said, we should be judged by our actions now, not our actions while Oath-bound and doomed,” Elrond countered, and from his tone it was clear this was a well-worn argument. At that, Gil-galad turned to Celebrían and asked,

“He lies, he’s not usually half that rational. What are your thoughts, my lady? Did our friend make a mistake when he chose to tie himself to House Fëanor?”

Celebrían knew the answer she wanted to give, but she considered the question carefully. She thought of the fear and anger her father showed whenever Fëanor and his ilk were mentioned, and of her mother’s well-worn frustration, but she also considered the weight of her own experiences. Once she had reached her decision, she looked Gil-galad in the eyes and lifted her chin.

“It is only fair to judge them by what I have seen myself and not by the horror stories my father told me as a child. I have met only members of House Fëanor under Lord Elrond’s leadership, but all I have seen is a credit to them. In my visits to Imladris, they have been courteous and welcoming, and I am proud to call many among them my friends. Before, when we fled Eregion, they were ever on the front line and fought valiantly to protect us. If others choose to speak ill of them, that is a reflection on those who speak, not on those who are defamed.”

She did not dare turn to look at Elrond throughout her speech. She did, however, watch the slowly-growing delight in Gil-galad’s eyes, which slid every so often to Elrond’s face. By the time she finished, he was grinning widely.

“You know, your Lord Elrond has never managed an answer so polite,” he told her. He then turned to face Elrond and said, “You should listen to her.”

“I always do,” Elrond said. She looked at him for the first time since she had begun to speak of his House and felt her heart stutter at the look of near devotion in his gaze, quickly hidden when she caught his eyes.

*

“Why is there a letter marked with the High King’s heraldry on my table?” Celeborn asked. It was an improvement, Celebrían thought, to his reaction to Elrond’s first letter, but something told her he would not appreciate the full story. She plucked the letter from his hands with a smile. She did not have to fake her enthusiasm when she said,

“Oh, Gil-galad did promise to write!”

She went to rush off to her quarters, but the sound of her name stopped her. She turned, raising an eyebrow at her father, and asked,

“Am I to submit all correspondence for your approval, Ada?”

“You know that isn’t what this is about, Celebrían,” Celeborn sighed. “Why is the High King of the Noldor writing you?”

“We met in Imladris,” Celebrían said. “Elrond introduced us.”

Celeborn sighed, gesturing for her to go, but said, “Of course you catch the attention of the High King because of the Fëanorian.”

*

To her parents despair, Celebrían now had an additional correspondent, and while she did not visit the High King with anywhere near the regularity she visited Imladris, she did find time to visit. When the High King visited Lothlórien, she was alarmed to find her parents looking at her with a familiar political glint in their eyes. She found herself much more engaged in diplomatic matters than she ordinarily was for the entire visit. Her only relief came when Gil-galad boldly stole her away to speak privately with her.

“It’s terrible. Mother wanted me to talk to you about the grain tax policy, of all things, as if I have nothing better to discuss with a friend I have not seen for three decades! Is this what being King is like? How can you stand it?”

Gil-galad stared at her for a moment, then laughed, the sound ringing loudly throughout the golden wood. “Ah, you and Elrond are truly could not be more perfectly suited for one another.”

“We’re friends,” Celebrían said quickly.

“Yes, that’s why you stare at him so,” Gil-galad said, and Celebrían hid her face in her hands.

“Am I so obvious?”

“To everyone but Elrond himself,” Gil-galad told her. “Now, Celebrían, as dearly as I would love to gossip with you about our mutual friend, I need to know, what did your mother want you to say to me about the grain tax policy?”

*

Raised voices echoed through the normally tranquil halls of Imladris. Celebrían followed the sound to find two elves screaming insults at each other, one scarred Fëanorian and one visitor she did not recognize. The Fëanorian’s mouth snapped shut as soon as Elrond stepped into the room with a face like a stormcloud. The guest stopped talking a few moments later, looking at Elrond as if he were a ghost. There were a few moments of blissful silence before both parties started to talk to Elrond at once, gesturing to one another as if trying to cast the blame in each direction. Elrond held up a hand.

“I do not care who started it. I am ending it. I have had enough First-Age nonsense to last ten Ages and I will not see the old grievances of our people re-fought under my own roof.”

“But Sirion!” cried the guest in Sindarin, while the Fëanorian spat,

“They claimed Lord Makalaurë bewitched you.”

Elrond froze. If Celebrían had never seen Elrond wear anger openly on his face, she would not have recognized it now, because he smiled, relaxed his shoulders and took the guest’s hand in his own even as fury burned in his eyes. His tone was dreadfully gentle when he said,

“Even Maglor, son of Fëanor, could not to force me to love him through song, nor could he wipe my mind clear of the past. Such things are beyond the Eldar.”

“And who told you that?” the guest scoffed. Using their grasp on Elrond’s hand, they tried to pull him closer, but Elrond did not move.

“Lady Galadriel of Lothlórien told me such a thing was impossible, and she has no love for House Fëanor,” Elrond said. “I assume we can still trust in her wisdom?”

The guest turned pale and started to shake. “Then why? If you know what they did, how can you tolerate Fëanorians, let alone speak well of him?”

“Because he was as kind and good to me as he was dreadful to the Havens of Sirion,” Elrond told them. At that, the guest started to weep. Elrond pulled them into an embrace and led them in the direction of the healing wing.

Celebrían was left shaken, forced to process several details at once. The first, and less pressing detail, was that all of Elrond’s casual comments about having once been a hostage covered a darker truth than she had guessed at. The second and much more pressing concern was that it was her mother who had told Elrond it was impossible to force someone to love you through enchantment. It would have been a small detail had it not triggered a vivid flash of memory: Elrond, struck with fear and guilt, speaking to her mother in frantic Quenya and then cringing in humiliation at her reply.

In retrospect, Celebrían could see why everyone described them as embarrassing.

*

It took Celebrían some days to formulate her plan. During that time, for the first time in their acquaintance, Elrond avoided her. He did not seek out her company nor leave his door open for her. If she came to him in a crowd, he introduced her to other guests and then fled at first opportunity. Fortunately, she had made more than a few friends in Imladris, and once she had formed her plan she went to them. To her delight, nearly every member of House Fëanor turned traitor as soon as she explained her plan and her motive. Elrond’s schedule miraculously cleared of anything that could call him away.

And so, after much planning, Celebrían cornered Elrond in a quiet, private section of the gardens of Imladris. She waited until he had walked past her and then stepped from her hiding place and blocked his escape.

“Did you honestly think you’d enchanted me with your singing?”

“In my defence, you were looking at me very strangely,” Elrond said in the tones normally reserved for diplomacy. He did not turn to face her, instead walking to the riverbank and looking out over the rushing water. “I had heard so many rumours about what singing could compel one to do. And my mind had wandered that night. I was afraid.”

Celebrían considered her options, both gentle and not, and opted for not. “I have never known you to be a coward before.”

Elrond turned on the spot, and the wild desperation in his eyes almost made her regret her choice. “Celebrían, I cannot harm you. I could not bear it.”

“Do you truly not know why I looked at you like that?” Celebrían asked, stepping towards him. At the tiny shake of his head, she smiled and stepped so close she could place a hand on his face. “Oh, Elrond, dear one, it was no compulsion. I was falling in love with you even then.”

The radiant joy that spread across Elrond’s face was answer enough. Without waiting for words, she kissed him. That night, walking in the forest, she made him sing for her again, and this time she understood every word of praise and every love song that fell from his lips while he looked at her like she was the most precious thing in the world.

*

“In truth, you did change the focus of my song that night,” Elrond confessed later. “It was meant to be protection and concealment for Imladris only, but my thoughts dwelt on you. My love for you is built into the foundations of Imladris.”

*

As a token of their betrothal, Elrond gifted her a necklace wrought of silver and the most beautiful jewels Celebrían had ever seen. He placed it around her neck with a wistful smile and said,

“My fathers gifted this to me to give to my betrothed. I will admit that I have thought about giving it to you more often than is proper.”

When her mother came to welcome her home, she took one look at the necklace and took Celebrían’s hands in hers, weeping.

“Congratulations, Celebrían. Lothlórien will be poorer for your loss!”

Celebrían blushed and let her mother embrace her. “Am I still so obvious?”

“I know the smith who wrought those jewels, and not even your Elrond is besotted enough to give them out lightly.”

Before Celebrían could depart for Imladris for the final time, word came that the High King was mustering his people for a grand assault on Mordor itself. Celebrían’s journey was delayed. There was little sense in leaving in the middle of a war, everyone said, but she heard the underlying meaning. There would be no sense journeying to Imladris if Elrond did not return from battle.

*

The news from the battlefield was both good and bad. Elrond lived and Sauron had been cast down, but Gil-galad had fallen. Celebrían wept for her friend, then wept harder when she thought of how much the loss would hurt Elrond.

Once the worst of her grief had passed, her mother pulled her aside. “Celebrían, darling, did your betrothed ever discuss politics with you?”

Celebrían cast her memory back and asked, “What kind of politics?”

“By rights, Elrond should be the High King.”

After the shock has passed, Celebrían laughed until her sides ached. She saw her parents exchange worried looks, but she did not manage to pull herself together for several minutes. She tried to explain, although she was not certain her explanation was entirely coherent.

“Gil-galad! If they know, in the Halls, what we do here, he will be laughing at us. He has been trying to make Elrond his heir for longer than I have been alive. If Elrond wouldn’t accept it from Gil-galad, he’s not going to do it for the rest of you.”

With some prompting from her mother, Celebrían then explained the close bond between Elrond and Gil-galad and the number of times she herself had seen him outright refuse to be named his heir or given any more royal authority. By the end of her story, Galadriel was convinced. The shape of Noldor politics in Middle Earth would change and, for the first time, there would be no High King.

*

When Elrond came at last to Lothlórien to ask permission from Celebrían’s parents to wed, it was not the joyous reunion Celebrían had hoped for. He greeted her as affectionately as he ever had, but she barely concealed her horror at the sight of him. Elrond looked as if he had not slept in weeks. His hair, normally dark as night and so smooth and silky she could not keep from touching it, lay limp and greasy about his shoulders and there were dark shadows under his eyes.

As soon as they had gone through the formal welcome, she visited him in his room and found him staring out over the city.

“Gil-galad is dead,” he said as soon as she entered. He looked down, rubbed his thumb against the signet ring he wore for his House and said, “My cousin is dead, also. I thought he died long ago, but Sauron was not content with destroying his home and corrupting his work. He…”

Celebrían stepped closer, putting a hand around Elrond’s shoulder, and he buried his face against her neck and sobbed. She had seen him weep before, but it had always been a dignified, restrained thing, not this ugly, heaving sobbing that shook his entire body with the force of his grief. Not knowing what else to do, she coaxed him to sit down beside her and held him, stroking his greasy hair and murmuring soft reassurances.

“I’m sorry,” he choked out, several hours in, and she hushed him and kissed his forehead.

“You loved him. Your cousin too. Of course you mourn.”

“I want him back,” Elrond moaned. “I know it is stupid, I know it is childish, I know no one ever comes back, but I want him back.”

Celebrían took a moment to unpack that. She was certain that Elrond would not be calling it stupid or childish if she (or anyone else) were the one wailing that she wanted Gil-galad back, but there would be time enough to unpack that in the future.

“Elrond, my love, what do you mean no one comes back?”

They had communicated via osanwë a handful of times after their betrothal. Each time, Celebrían had marvelled at the peace and beauty of her love’s mind and feä. This time, when he reached out, she gasped aloud at the very first touch of Elrond’s mind against hers as the sudden, rushing current of grief pulled her under.

They were four, and their father was gone, and they did not understand why.

They were six, and their tutor was dead, and people outside were screaming, and Mother had just stepped out the window with a Silmaril because that was more precious than –

He was fifteen, and Elros had just realized he had no desire to live as an elf and he would be alone alone so alone until the breaking of the world and –

“Elrond!”

He tried so hard to take care of them the same way they took care of him, but the Oath was breaking them, bit by bit. And his fathers left, promising they would return only if it was safe, but Elrond knew already they meant never, he would never see them again and –

Atto was dead, he had gone to the void, he had thrown himself into the void instead of letting Elrond help, why hadn’t he just stayed, why hadn’t Elrond been enough –

Elros was old, and he was happy, and he did not understand why every corner of Elrond’s being screamed at the sight of him ageing because they were supposed to be twins, they were supposed to be identical, they were supposed stay together, but Elros was ageing and dying and leaving and Elrond was not –

He had known something was wrong, Celebrimbor had been slipping away from them bit by bit, but he had let it happen, too scared that the wrong words would only drive him closer to Annatar and now it was too late, Elrond was too late, even if he saved Eregion he could not save Celebrimbor –

– Celebrimbor, who was alive, if only just, but Elrond could not get to him, and being alive was no relief because even elves with little talent for osanwë could feel his agony from across the plain –

And now Gil-galad was gone, and –

Celebrían grit her teeth together and pushed back, forcing an image of the future as it could be at him. The discongruity of the image was enough to snap Elrond out of his spiral. He blinked at her uncomprehending, eyes heavy and tired.

“Elrond, my love, Gil-galad will be waiting for us when we sail. He’s going to be furious he didn’t get to see our children grow up, but once he has recovered in the Halls of Mandos, he will be there. Celebrimbor, too, will heal in time, and you can introduce me. You may have to wait a very long time, but you will see them again, my love.”

Elrond exhaled slowly, resting his forehead against her own. The relief he took from her words felt like adding mere drops of fresh water to the ocean, but his face calmed. She continued,

“And no matter what, my love, I am here. Elrond, darling, I swear” –

Fear, as potent as if threatened with death itself, and Elrond’s hand appeared over her mouth. Despite the situation, he managed the smallest smile she had ever seen and said,

“You should know better than to make oaths.”

Once she removed his hand, Celebrían kissed his nose and said, “Very well. Then I promise, my love, I will never leave you.”

*

The day after Elrond had arrived in Lothlórien, Galadriel arranged for him to have lunch with her and Celebrían. Celebrían wondered at her motives but did not protest. She arranged for her mother’s favourite foods to be prepared, hoping to keep her in a fine mood, and visited Elrond beforehand to instruct him in what to wear. And yet, despite her efforts, Galadriel still cast a critical eye over Elrond as soon as he stepped onto the balcony where they were to meet. He bowed and greeted her politely in Sindarin. In Quenya, she bluntly returned,

“Elrond, you look terrible.”

In any other circumstances, Celebrían might have laughed at the shock on Elrond’s face. Before he could begin to assemble a response, Galadriel outlined the ways in which he was failing to care for himself and the changes she expected to see. She was not gentle with him. Her manner reminded Celebrían more of a general addressing her troops than the mother she knew and loved, but it seemed to strike a chord with Elrond. At first, the blood drained from his face and he looked at her in open horror, but as he listened to her advice, he schooled his expression and promised to take her words under advisement.

After Elrond was dismissed (dismissed! Celebrían had not thought anyone could do that to him, not even her mother), she asked,

“Mother? What was that really about?”

“In many ways, Elrond has healed his House (or at least himself) of its flaws and led it into an age of wisdom,” Galadriel said. “But in others, he takes after his fathers and their family all too well. It was grief as well as arrogance that drove Fëanor to madness; it is said his father Maedhros never recovered from the death of his friend Fingon the Valiant, who was High King; his other father, Maglor, was driven mad in grief and guilt after the death of Maedhros and the rejection of the Silmarils.”

Celebrían thought of the desperate, howling grief she had felt when she had touched Elrond’s mind the previous night. A shiver ran down her spine.

“He has recovered from grief before,” she said, but she did not sound as confident as she wanted to.

“And he will again, so long as he remembers he has reason to,” Galadriel said gently.

*

Elrond’s condition improved over the next several days. Within two weeks, he looked nearly his normal self. Being fully recovered, he requested an audience with the Lord and Lady of the Golden Wood. There he formally presented himself and requested permission to wed Celebrían. But instead of the instant approval Celebrían had expected, her father looked at him with a cold expression.

“Why should I give my daughter to a Fëanorian?”

“I would not have it said you gave her to me, as some possession I sought,” Elrond answered. “Celebrían is her own. She asked to make me her husband. I am not in the habit of denying her what she wants.”

“You would make her your equal as the Lady of Imladris?” Galadriel asked.

And oh, Celebrían had hoped for permission, but she had not dared look for the approval she heard in her mother’s voice at that. Elrond looked at Celebrían and met her eyes as he said,

“I would.”

Galadriel then asked for details of how he intended the governance of Imladris to work under such a system. Elrond answered readily. He was well accustomed to resolving issues through long discussion and had experience with processes to ensure disputes were resolved satisfactorily; he intended to afford Celebrían as much or as little power and responsibility as she desired; he was certain his people would follow her as readily as they followed him. The last point made Celeborn’s face turn sour. But the longer the discussion went on, the clearer it became that no reasonable complaint could be made with Elrond’s request. If Celebrían wished to marry him, her parents would grant their consent.

*

Half-way through Celebrían’s first pregnancy, Elrond paused in the middle of reading her poetry aloud and tilted his head to one side. She caught a glimpse of his mouth stretching into a radiant grin before he covered it with one hand. Tugging lightly at his wrist, she gave him a stern look. A bubble of laughter escaped him and the severity of her look increased.

“I’m sorry, it’s just – three times, however you count it,” he said. His mind brushed against hers and she opened to it like a flower following the sun, ready to delight in whatever it was that had triggered such a response in her husband. He led her through his thoughts gently, guiding her to the vision he had seen: herself, pregnant, but in winter, followed through the house by two small boys that may as well have been clones of her husband.

As soon as Celebrían came back to herself, she laughed. “You scoundrel. Twins? No wonder none of my clothes fit.”

“I’m sorry,” Elrond said, and it was the most plainly unrepentant apology she had ever heard from him. She kissed him anyway.

“I suppose the obvious mother-names are out,” she mused after. “Not with hair like that.”

To say nothing of how most elves would react to two little dark-haired Fëanorians running around with the names beginning with “Cele” as a mother-name might traditionally begin. Then again, she and Elrond had done very little traditional in their courtship. Perhaps this was something else where she should divert from tradition.

“Is this where I apologize again?”

“As long as they have better manners than you claim to have had at that age, I will be perfectly content,” Celebrían said, but both of them knew that even demanding that was an exaggeration. Sitting in the sun with her husband, Celebrían could not imagine being anything other than content so long as she and her family were safe in Imladris.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
This brings us to the end of the Second Age! The next scheduled entry is Maglor. However, Maglor will take a little while to share because he's being difficult. This is in character for him.

Comments and kudos are a huge boost to my mood and I appreciate each and every one of them <3