TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
how you love, and a halo surrounds you	starlightwalking	2021-09-15	2021-10-13	14,825	9/9	95	141	25	1,973

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Mature	Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Fingon | Findekáno/Maedhros | Maitimo	Fingon | Findekáno, Maedhros | Maitimo, Námo | Mandos, Manwë Súlimo, Anairë, Thorondor, Ereinion Gil-galad, Erien (Daughter of Fingon), Eönwë	Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Fingon Dies, and then comes back to life dw, Temporary Character Death, Halls of Mandos, arguing your way out of the afterlife, in which Fingon is both Orpheus and Eurydice, Re-embodied elves, Quenya Names, Trans Male Character, Trans Fingon, Transitioning, Misgendering, Sexual Content, Devotion, True Love, queering characters who were already queer, Trauma-Affected Sexuality, Trauma-Affected Gender, Implied/Referenced Rape/Non-con, Implied/Referenced Torture, Rescue from Thangorodrim, Caedsexuality, Caedsexual Maedhros, Sexuality Crisis, Altered Mental States, Flashbacks, Power of music, Masturbation, consensual voyeurism, Trauma Recovery, gender questioning, Gender Identity, Nonbinary Character, Agender Character, Caedgender Character, Nonbinary Maedhros, Name Changes, Fealty Kink, Liege/Vassal Dynamic, Non-Sexual Intimacy, Spontaneous Marriage, Wedding Night, Vaginal Sex, Anal Fingering, Soul Bond, Accidental Baby Acquisition, Adoption, Gil-galad Russingonion, Gil-galad Lalwenion, Gil-galad Son of Plothole, Unplanned Pregnancy, Erien Russingoniel

SUMMARY
Findekánë dies at Alqualondë. It is Findekáno who flies to save his lover.
Maitimë is lost on Thangorodrim. It is Russandol who is found on the shores of Mithrim.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Chapter 1


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
Inspired by much too tall for a boyfriend by lonelyvisitor
This is a sequel to maedron’s excellent proto-trans AFAB Russingon fic, “much too tall for a boyfriend.” My story is written in a different style, and is really only one possible take on how these events could have broken down; if maedron ever writes more of this verse, please take their version as more “canon” than my own! Nevertheless, I am deeply grateful that maedron has allowed me to play with the concepts in their story <3

This story turned from a small idea about what would happen if Fingon really did die and come back with a different body and transformed into a fic about Russingon through the whole First Age! The fic is completely written (coming at 9 chapters long and about 15,000 words), so updates should come consistently until it’s fully posted. I anticipate updating every Monday/Wednesday/Friday, with the exception of this Friday, since I am moving that day and won’t have the time!

I took the fic title from the same song that maedron got their fic’s title. I’m not really familiar with the song or the artist, but this one line stood out to me as fitting.

This fic deals with some heavy topics. Please mind the tags and chapter notes, where I will include relevant content warnings.
Some warnings for the fic overall: references to past torture/rape, trauma affecting gender and sexual identity, gender weirdness in a myriad of ways, misgendering (rarely malicious and often the result of the messiness of the questioning process; however there are a few moments of intentional misgendering from outsiders), canon-typical violence and death, some sexual content (especially in chapters 4 and 6)

And one last note before we get started: Disclaimer that gender identity is NOT necessarily connected to one’s physical genitalia, and many trans people choose not to physically transition (and even if they do, genital surgery is not always part of that), but for Fingon in this story that is an important part of his transitioning process. He was male before he died, but now that he has the body he’s always wanted he feels confident in expressing his gender. Honestly, I usually write trans elves who don’t physically transition; this is new ground for me!

Alright, thank you for reading, and I hope you enjoy!

A return from death.

CHAPTER 1
“I am leaving,” Findekánë announced.

The Vala looked at his amorphous form, unimpressed. “No.”

“I am.”

“Thou art not permitted.”

“What, for your Doom?” he demanded. “The one I love is suffering—she is being tormented—”

“She abandoned thee and thy people.”

“I was dead! If I yet lived, she would not have—”

“Do not be so certain, little lady.”

If he could have, he would’ve spat on the ground—but he had no hröa as of yet, and there was no ground in this liminal space. “I am no lady.”

A shift: Findekánë felt a probing in his spirit, an exploration. He did not resist; there would be no point.

“Ah. I see.” The Doomsman’s hood lowered slightly, the stars in his empty face gleaming brighter. “Is this why thou wert so reckless in the battle?” 

Findekánë stared stubbornly. “No. But I cannot say I regret my actions, and that I will not take advantage of the situation.”

“Thou art certain, then.” The Vala sounded almost—resigned.

“Aye,” he said firmly, terrified and elated.

“And thy course shall not be stayed?”

“Nay.”

A wave of that bony hand. Findekánë shuddered, a cold wind rushing through him, and then—

“Then walk free, foolish little lord, and be thine own Doom a second time.”

He’d fantasized of this a hundred thousand times, slipping his fingers into his cunt and moaning at the thought of a swelling cock, of fucking Maitimë into the mattress and truly feeling it, of Maitë’s lips stretched wide around his length. And then he’d felt guilty, for Maitimë loved him as a nís, loved him as he was, and did not desire néri even when she humored him and played along with his impossible fantasies. The thought of losing her tore his heart in two—but that grief was matched only by the joy of his dreams where he was free to be himself. Free to be a nér.

He knew Maitimë loved him. He took solace in the thought. No matter what, Maitimë would always love him, even if it was not in the same way, and he must be content with that.

He had thought the first thing he would do upon waking up with a cock was touch himself, bring himself off in the way he’d long dreamed, spill into his hand and weep for the joy of it. The next thing would be to run to Maitimë and show her—and in this fantasy she would be joyous also, despite everything—and they would make love as he had always dreamed, and then he would announce to her father he was taking her hand in marriage and they would run away together and when they returned everyone would have forgotten his first life and they would be truly happy for ever and ever.

But was before the Darkening—terror, Unlight, chaos—before the speeches, the Oath—Doom, Darkness, vengeance—before the Kinslaying—screaming, blood, fire in her veins—

That was before she had died, and he had been born anew.

So now his first thought was not of his own pleasure, but of her: of saving her from that awful cliff, the one he had glimpsed from the tapestries in the endless Halls. She had marched to seeming death because of him, because he had died for her sake and left her behind, and oh, he had done wrong by her to perish even if it allowed him this grace.

He would not let her suffer any longer. He would save her, and nurse her back to health, and allow her to love him however she could, and he would crown her once more (as he ought to have the first time) and fight by her side and earn vengeance against the evil one who dared to touch her.

So instead of realizing his long-nursed desires, Findekánë—

No. Not Findekánë.

He was a nér, now, in every way; he had always been, in truth, but now he knew it. Now he could make others see it, make them understand.

He was a nér, and his name was Findekáno.

Instead, Findekáno marched to Taniquetil and to Manwë and demanded passage o’er the Sea, and if he was denied it he would endure the bitter ice as had the kin Maitimë had not the will to defend when her father burnt the ships. If he died again, he would return again, over and over until he reached her and saved her and held her in his arms.

He would come for Maitimë, and nothing in Arda could stop him.

“And why, little one, would I grant thee such a boon as I denied to all thy kin?” Manwë asked, but his voice was gentle and his eyes kind. He had always liked Findekáno, ever since he won that falconry contest the year he came of age.

Findekáno lifted his chin. “Because I am but one nér petitioning you, Sire, and my quest is not for vengeance, but for love.”

At the word nér there was a rumble among the Valar; and again at the word love. Findekáno stood firm. He would not be cowed.

“Why did you let this one out so soon, Námo?” asked Estë, her voice a thin whisper. “She is not yet ready.”

“He insisted.” Námo’s speech crackled in the physical realm, unlike the smooth elegance he possessed in his own Halls. “He will learn the extent of his own foolishness, or not. He could not heal in my domain if he would not accept it.”

“I will go whether you grant me safe passage or not,” Findekáno declared. “I will save her, even if I must die a thousand deaths before I do. I ask only for your aid in avoiding such measures, if you will have mercy upon a Noldo in his need.”

“I cannot grant thee what thou seekest,” Manwë said slowly. “T’would not be fair to thy kin who hath suffered so.”

“You condemn me for the sake of their condemnation?” Findekáno demanded. “Would not your aid be recompense for your injustices against them?”

“Any may leave, but we will not aid in their departure,” Varda murmured, her words twinkling like starlight. “It is the law. It is precedented.”

“Fuck your precedent,” Findekáno declared, and turned round, marching away from the Ring of Doom. “Fine. I will rescue her myself, if I must.”

“Do not ask the Falmari for aid,” Ulmo warned, his tone as deep as the caverns of the sea. “The blood has not yet been washed from their shores.”

“I do not intend to,” he said coldly, and cold he would be upon his dreadful journey east. At least he knew what path to take, and could prepare for it; the same could not be said for any of his kin.

His mother awaited him when he arrived at the empty mansion that once had been his home. She was trembling; she wept as he approached, rushing to embrace him, begging him not to leave her, not again.

“You may come with me, Ammë,” he offered gently, but he knew she would not. “Atya would be glad of it.”

“He would not.” She wiped her eyes. “You know that Arno has died, do you not?”

Findekáno froze. “Arno?” he whispered. “No—no! I thought—I knew of Elenwë’s fate, but—”

“Look,” Anairë said, pointing to the white orb in the sky. “It was—it was the day that Telperion’s flower first arose. They—they made it across, but he—there were...monsters, and he...”

“If I had been there—” Findekáno choked out.

Anairë shook her head. “Thou hast already left me once,” she wept. “Please, do not leave me again, Kánë. Be here with me when your brother returns. I cannot lose my daughter again.”

Findekáno flinched. “I am not your daughter.” He had not returned with the towering stature he had envisioned, but surely his change was apparent!

His mother stilled. “Kánë...”

“I am your son, and always have been,” Findekáno insisted. “And I am leaving once more: not for vengeance, but for love.”

“You—”

“Maitimë is—” His voice broke. “She is in dreadful torment, Ammë. I cannot leave her there.”

“You have always been close,” Anairë admitted, “but surely thy friend—”

“She is my lover, and has been for many years,” Findekáno snapped. “I will keep secrets from thee no longer, Amilya. I will keep nothing of myself from the world. I have died for my secrets: I will live now, for myself.”

“She killed thee!” Anairë wailed. “If she had not slaughtered innocents and coerced thee into slaughtering more—”

“I made my choices. I do not regret them. I will not be swayed.” Findekáno stood tall, despite remaining the same height as his first hröa. He felt powerful now; this was how he always should have been, unless it would have made Maitimë’s eyes pass over him. “Stand aside, Lady Anairë, and let me gather supplies for my march across the Helcaraxë—or condemn me to starvation as the Valar would have it.”

“Not as they all would have it,” cried a new voice, and a shadow fell across the flower of Telperion, blocking out the light it gave.

“But Manwë denied me,” Findekáno said dumbly, staring in awe at Sorontar the mighty. “He—in front of all his peers—”

“Thy story moved his pity,” Sorontar croaked. “He could not bend before the others: but his grief at the suffering of the Noldor is deep and terrible, despite the mandate of Mandos.”

Findekáno broke into a grin, his spirits rising. “I should have known. After I argued my way out of Mandos, of course Máhanaxar would be easy.”

“Do not take mine aid for granted, Lord Findekáno,” Sorontar warned, ruffling his feathers. “And do not expect me to suffer all thy foolish whims. I will bear thee across the Sea: no further.”

“You will bear me to Maitimë, and I will count the negligence of your lord forgiven,” Findekáno said firmly. He paused. “Still; wait but a moment: I will need less than I would for a journey across the Ice, but I shall need my harp, and my bow.”

“And thy blade,” Sorontar said darkly.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
The phrase “my harp, and my bow” is borrowed from daphnerunning’s wonderful Russingon series, What Is Wrought Between Us.


CHAPTER 2 TITLE
Chapter 2


CHAPTER 2 INITIAL NOTES
A phantom song.

Many of the quotes Maedhros remembers in this chapter are from maedron’s fic.

Arantári = High King (feminine)

Content warning for the following traumas having occurred in the past (they are only discussed or implied, not actually depicted): rape/non-con/sexual abuse, torture, attempted forced breeding, vampirism, self-sterilization (as a function of will rather than literal self-mutilation)
And additional content warnings for Maedhros misgendering Fingon because Mae literally does not yet know what’s happened with Fingon, as well as illusions/hallucinations/unreality (some of which are actually happening; Mae just doesn’t know what is and isn’t real).


CHAPTER 2
The song soared through the air, as she had not heard since the day Findekánë died. The notes rang out from above, tossed by the wind, dancing betwixt clouds, and she turned her face away in shame.

It was Findekánë—but it couldn’t be, it couldn’t be her; she had died, she’d died and it was Maitimë’s fault, all her fault—if she hadn’t dragged Kánë into battle, she would still live, and, and—

No. Findekánë was dead. It could not be her: it was simply impossible. It must be her memory, or an illusion, or else Kánë’s spirit crying out to her from Mandos. Perhaps she was close to that veil herself; perhaps she would find her freedom after all, in death.

But that voice: so achingly familiar...yet different, somehow; deeper and more confident, not that Kánë had ever been unconfident in her entire life. A rich timbre that left no room for doubt, that resonated with the joy of a fëa aligned at last with its hröa, that blazed forth in might where once it had been only a spark—and she had thought the spark powerful—

A memory, out of the past: Perhaps I will simply throw myself off the sea-cliffs at Alqualondë...

The irony of it—yet it was not the cliffs where she had perished, but the shifting shores, a Telerin blade in her belly.

...and be reborn from Mandos not your cousin. A hitch of breath: uncertainty. And with a cock.

It had been a shock, the first time—but she had seen the vulnerability in her lover’s eyes. She had played along, the first time, indulging her, and could not deny the fantasy was titillating—but she had thought long on Kánë’s words amid the afterglow.

I am afraid, Maitimë had confessed, of how much I want you.

The song, the echo of her beloved—it rose again, piercing through the haze of pain and grief and fear. For a moment Maitimë’s mind was clear; for a moment, she thought she caught a spark of Findekánë’s fëa nearby, the same as ever.

I like you as you are, she once had said. But—also as you would be. For was it not Kánë’s fëa she loved, just as well as her hröa? And if her yearnings were true, was it not her hröa that was ill-suited, not her fëa?

And it had not been only the one time. Findekánë had returned to her fantasy, shy at first, then with growing boldness, and each time their play became a little more real. Maitimë had thought they had been very nearly on the edge of a discovery, a confession—but then the world had come crashing down around them, and they had not the leisure to explore what such a thing might mean.

Would you still desire me, then? Kánë had asked, their last sleepless night before the Dark.

Maitimë had not given her an answer, for she did not know. In the beginning she had wanted only níssi, and laughed at the thought of a nér’s cock pleasing her, putting off marriage with the aid of six unwittingly conspiratory brothers and a father so overbearing no suitor could stand the thought of wedding himself to her House.

I desire thee, she had whispered instead, a non-answer to a question so hesitantly asked.

But Findekánë had always been her one exception, for everything: the one person she could fully trust; the one person she would be reckless for; the one person she would, perhaps, desire as a nér, cock or no.

A woman King, the harsh voice of her captor had laughed, pinning her down. How pitiful. Art thy kin so weak they could find no other?

Her hröa was broken; her fëa with it. Then, it had been a matter of philosophy only. Now—

Let us see what heir I can breed from thee, the blackheart had growled, and ruined her. Let us see what King of the Noldor I can tear from thy womb, O Arantári Nelyafinwë.

She had no desire left in her. She had torn it out of herself along with her mind; it had shriveled the moment she had cursed her womb to rot. And least of all would she desire a cock, after all she had endured.

And yet: she breathed the song in the air, deep into her lungs, and felt that long-forsaken feathered thing stir within her breast. She remembered soft touches, she remembered golden light, she remembered silver laughter. She remembered what it was to live, when she had thought she was dead in all the ways her Oath would allow.

Maitë, came a distant whisper from her long-buried memory. Maitë...

Perhaps—

Maitë.

Even if Maitimë had no desire left in her: even then, perhaps her pulse might quicken for Findekánë.

The song faded—and Maitimë hung her head once more, looking down at the ruin of her chest, the ruin of her once-secret places now made visible for all evil things to defile. She was a fool to think that even if Findekánë were here, even if she had been granted such a hröa, that she would look upon this wretched thing with desire.

The song was lost: she was a fool to think it had ever been found. It was not possible—it must have been another illusion, another trick of Þauron, another deception—a cruel falsehood, a mockery of Maitimë’s own pain and confusion, spitting in the face of Kánë’s internal conflict. A reminder of that empty place in her fëa where once she had been a nís who desired other níssi, but now was nothing and desired no one.

Useless, even as a tool. Hang her on the cliffs, where she will bring thy vampires some amusement, at the least.

Perhaps it had been only her memory, a dream out of the past. Perhaps that whisper of a melody that spun through the viscous air even now was Maitimë’s broken heart crying out for what she had lost.

Perhaps—

Maitimë coughed, the sound lost in the foul vapors of Thangorodrim. No. She had long since gone mad, so that even the vampires who came to drain her hröa of its lifeblood were delightsome company, for they were at least company in the endless gloom. She was imagining things, or else the world had been Unsung already and she had hung here until the Battle of Battles, time reduced to a meaningless scrawl across her fëa.

But if so—if the world was truly ending all around her, or at least her world, then it was a sweet farewell to hear the beloved voice of Findekánë, no matter how strangely masculine she sounded now. She ought to be grateful for this final grace, this comfort she did not deserve.

And so Maitimë lifted her head, trembling with the effort of looking up, and raised her voice to join her lover’s phantom song.

Abruptly the music ended, and Maitimë faltered, her heart breaking. She had not known she had anything left to break: but when it came to Findekánë, she should know better than to make assumptions.

Of course it was not real—for all the Eldar could return from death, Kánë would not be permitted such grace—no echo of your lamentation—she was a Kinslayer, for Maitë’s sake, she was Doomed and damned like the rest of them, because of Maitimë—indulging in the delusion had only shattered it—

And then the voice came again.

The song grew stronger, and Maitimë rasped out her response, listening, listening for that beloved voice, so different and yet so the same—and then the beating of mighty wings cleared the fog and smoke before her eyes, and Maitimë stared dumbfounded at the impossible sight before her.

Ai, she truly had gone mad.

An Eagle? An Eagle of Manwë, whom she had forsaken? No—there was no chance even her oft-broken mind would dream up such an impossible thing. It must be real, then; it must be true—

Ah. Of course. It was not a true Eagle, but a shade out of Mandos, come to bear her spirit to the Halls of the Dead.

“Take me,” she whispered, relieved to the marrow of her bones. It mattered not that she would never be released from Mandos, nor that she might be cast into the Everlasting Darkness; she would be free from this torment, and no matter Námo’s harsh justice she knew he would not be so cruel as Þauron and Moringotto. “I am ready...”

And then astride the Eagle rose an elven figure, voice ringing out clear and strong, fëa and hröa both reaching out for her, and Maitimë was stunned into silence.

It was—it was Findekánë.

Findekánë, Findekánë; her Findekánë, beautiful and brave and bold—her eyes glimmered with unshed tears as the Eagle flew closer, and Maitimë felt her spirit stir. Had Námo permitted Kánë to come fetch her? Truly, that was a mercy she did not deserve.

But—that voice. Deeper, stronger. And Kánë’s body—

This was her Findekánë, undoubtedly: Maitimë felt a familiar fëa reaching for her, brighter than ever before. It was Findekánë, and yet not, for this Findekánë was a nér, unquestionably so, grown into himself, fiercely confident, determined, beautiful, beloved—

This was Findekánë as she—as he was meant to be. But if he had at last achieved his true self, why would he want Maitë anymore, why would he be here, why would—

“Maitimë!” he cried, and at the sound of her name from his lips all her spiraling thoughts fell away. “Maitimë, melda, beloved, oh Maitë—!”

“Fin...dekán...” Her voice gave out, but it mattered not, for Findekánë was there, her—his hands at her face, lifting her chin, touching her, touching her once more and all she had thought dead and devoured within her blazed to life once more. If she could, she would have kissed him, but she was yet too weak: she was crumbling clay in his firm hands.

It was him. She knew it was him, for none of Þauron’s illusions had been so ridiculous, so convoluted and impossible as to have Findekánë flying on Eagle-back to her rescue, clothed in the body of a nér. And aside from that she felt him, filling the cavity of her heart with his fëa, eliciting a flutter of response from the remnants of her empty spirit, and she was lost, gone, his: always and forever, his, as she had been since the day she first had kissed him.

Aye, she could love a nér, if that nér was Findekánë. 


CHAPTER 2 FINAL NOTES
Maedhros is depicted here as caedsexual and caedgender; basically, their trauma has made them asexual and agender when before they were a cis lesbian. There’s also an aspect of demisexuality, in regards to their hypothetical attraction to Fingon; they don’t currently feel that attraction, but they think they could in the future, just to him and no one else.

I did reference that Emily Dickinson poem about hope, if you were wondering why the line about “that feathered thing” seemed familiar :p


CHAPTER 3 TITLE
Chapter 3


CHAPTER 3 INITIAL NOTES
The price of freedom.

Content warning for general Thangorodrim content, as well as misgendering (mostly because of confusion/miscommunication, not malicious intent).


CHAPTER 3
The chain would not break. He tugged and hacked and wept and cursed, but it would not break. He set to assaulting the sheer stone around the shackle, but it was useless, a futile effort—he knew it would not work.

But he could not rest. If he paused, he would have to take in Maitimë once more, and he could not afford to break down over her pitiful condition.

She seemed—calm. Almost...at peace. She stared at him with what he thought was supposed to be a smile, and—her eyes. Silver they once had been, bright as Telperion, but that light was gone, leached from her spirit, or what remained of it. She hung to life by an iron chain: if Findekáno broke it, would she leave him? He might die again if she did. He would not live without her; he knew that, now.

“Kánë,” she said softly, and from her lips he did not begrudge the name. “Kánë...it is alright.”

“It won’t break,” he sobbed. “Maitë, it won’t break, I can’t—”

“If you ever loved me, have mercy,” Maitimë begged, her voice broken and yet gentle. “Kánë. Look at me. Darling.”

He forced himself to obey, his vision clouded by tears. Maitimë’s face was so soft, so tender despite its marring. She was still beautiful to him.

“Kill me,” she entreated, as if it were the gentlest mercy and not likely to end his own life. “I am weary of this world. Kill me, and let me rest, and I will not chain thee to me: thou wilt be free, dear one, to be thyself.”

“I came back for thee,” he sobbed. “I will not leave without thee!”

“Please, Kánë...”

Beneath him, Sorontar’s grip on the wall loosened; Findekáno felt them drop a few inches, and his stomach lurched. They were running out of time.

“I will not lose thee,” Findekáno vowed. “I was selfish to leave thee, Maitë—and I am selfish to keep thee, but I cannot lose thee again. If thou canst not love me any longer, as I am—”

“I will always love thee, melindo,” she whispered, her dull grey eyes fluttering closed. “I always have. Thou art always the exception, for me...”

“Forgive me,” Findekáno wept, and lifted his blade a final time.

She had known agony. This was nothing like that.

It was a bright burst of pain, so vivid, so strong, so different from the slow ache of these last three yéni. She had been drained and dried out until she was nothing but a husk, yet still she felt the sharp sting of a blade and the hot flow of blood that was still, somehow, oozing through her veins. She wept, not from pain, but from relief.

And through it all: Findekánë. Somehow, impossibly, Findekánë was here for her. His face, stained with grief, so handsome, so perfect—Maitimë loved him more with every passing moment, though she knew not how.

She knew not how any of this was happening. She had lost her mind long ago.

For now, she would indulge in this fantasy, of Kánë at her side, saving her from everything—including herself. Especially herself.

She knew it would not last.

As one that returns from the dead, Findekáno landed in his father’s camp and demanded healers to attend to his beloved.

So shocked were they to see him that they could not find the wherewithal to disobey. Maitimë was taken from him—but he could not have that: he rushed after her. He needed to be with her, he would not be parted from her again. He clung to the faint spark of her fëa, the part of her that was still Maitimë, desperate for her to live. If she died, after all this—

“The princess lives!” was the cry taken up around the camp. He paid it no mind. It was not true: the princess had died at Alqualondë. A prince had returned, with a king in his arms.

He refused to see his father or his siblings, not until Maitimë was certain to live. He could not bear their emotions until his own were steady. The healers worked tirelessly for days; they insisted he eat and rest amid his vigil over his beloved, and he did so only because he knew he must keep himself in good condition so Maitimë would not worry when she awoke.

And she would wake.

Maitimë was dead.

That was the only reasonable conclusion she could come to. Her dreams had never been this kind, not even back in Valinórë, and she was certain she had not truly been rescued. So: she must be dead.

After all, Findekánë was dead, and if Findekánë was here, she must be dead also.

She had not thought Námo would be this merciful. She remembered the Doom clearly: it was burned into her soul as deeply as the Oath, and already her bleeding heart, her ceaseless weeping went unheard. Findekánë was dead—she was dead, and it was Maitimë’s fault. She deserved everything that came after; she deserved the failure and the humiliation and the torture and—and the death.

Yet for Findekánë to be here, her specter comforting Maitimë’s broken soul—she did not deserve her company, but Maitimë would not turn her away. Not again. Never again.

(Perhaps she ought to. Had it not been because Findekánë refused to stay away that she had been killed?)

“Maitë,” Findekánë whispered, and stroked what remained of her hair. “Maitë, meldanya...”

Maitimë smiled at her—at...him? Her memories were crept back one by one, piece by piece, and here in Mandos, where they were only fëar, it was so clear, so obvious that Findekánë was a nér. How had anyone not seen so before?

It ought to bother her, or worry her, at the least. But Maitimë found she loved him still, and that was all that mattered.

She tried to speak and discovered she could not; her throat was too dry. Hurriedly, Findekánë reached for a glass of water, trickling it into her mouth, and Maitimë drank greedily. It was—it tasted so good.

She ached all over. Her hand hurt from the shackle. But if she was dead, why were her pains so terrible? And if Findekánë was with her in the Halls, in his truest form, why was he whole and beautiful, where her fëa was still so shattered and broken?

Ah—of course: Findekánë was good, and had been forgiven, as he deserved. And Maitimë, who was evil, could not be restored—as she deserved.

“I am—” Findekánë choked up. “Maitë. I am so glad to be with you.”

“I am sorry,” she whispered, finding the ghost of her voice at last. “I shouldn’t have—you should hate me, Kánë, I don’t...”

“Shut up,” he said fiercely. “I didn’t die for you, fight my way back to life for you, cross the ocean for you, cut your hand off for you—I didn’t do any of that to have you refuse my love! I will always love you, Maitimë, and there is nothing you can do about it.”

Maitimë stared, having trouble processing his words. She glanced down at her hand, and—

There was no hand. Where it ought to be was a mass of bandages, and beneath...

She remembered pain, clean and clear and beautiful. She thought it had killed her.

But if Findekánë spoke truly—

“I don’t understand,” she whispered.

Findekánë drew back, swallowing visibly, the apple of his throat more pronounced in this hröa than before. “Yes,” he said, more subdued. “Of course. I don’t—I mean it, Maitë, what I said. But if you do not feel the same—or cannot, now that I am, that I am like this...I understand.”

“I am...alive?” Maitimë asked. One thing at a time. “And you—you are alive?”

Findekánë stared. “What? I—of course you are alive! Of course I am—!” He broke off, horror dawning in his eyes. “Oh, Maitë—did you think...?”

“I thought I would not see you again until I died,” she rasped. “I thought, for you to be able to choose such a visage, we must be fëar in Mandos. I thought...” None of it made sense. Why would Þauron kill her now? Or if she was not dead, how had she been freed from the cliff? How was Kánë here? How—?

“Oh, Maitë—!” Findekánë sobed. He fell forward, almost on top of her, then drew back, his eyes red. “I am so sorry for leaving you—I never wanted to—I had to save you, I had to—”

“You have always saved me,” she whispered. “I will always be yours. You did nothing wrong, Findekánë...” She cleared her throat, then asked, a little stronger, “Or—have you another name, now?”

“Findekáno,” he whispered. “It is—almost the same. Just...truer, now.”

“Findekáno.” The word felt right on her tongue; the way Findekánë had felt, but better. The way her own names had never felt. What she would give for another! “Would you be then...Káno?” She could not help but snort. “Ai, no, that is my brother...”

“I always thought it silly that I was called Kánë, for my siblings share that name-part as well,” Findekáno giggled, though he held a strange tension in his body. “Though there are so many Fins in our family, also, that I suppose that would be confusing as well...”

“Findo,” Maitimë tried. No, not quite. “Finno?” She smiled, the muscle movement so unfamiliar her face creaked with it. “Finno. My Finno.”

Tears welled up in Finno’s eyes, the tension loosening to a tremble as he held back a sob. “I love you,” he wept when he could take it no longer. “I should hate you, they say, my brother and the others, but I can’t, I love thee, I’ll always love thee, I...”

“As will I,” Maitimë promised, and though she knew very little now, she knew that to be true.


CHAPTER 3 FINAL NOTES
yén (pl. yéni) = an elvish long-year. Tolkien is notoriously terrible with math, and I personally don’t acknowledge Tree Years, but I use this term because it’s poetic. How much time does “three yéni” actually signify? Three years? Thirty? I don’t know; honestly, I’m not sure Maedhros knows, either. Interpret that how you like.

“As one that returns from the dead” is a quote from the Silm, speaking about Maedhros. I though it fitting to apply to Fingon in this context.

I think in this verse, if Fingon was named Findekánë at birth, it would only make sense for Aredhel to have a -kánë name to complete the pattern. It doesn’t really come up in the narrative, but I was thinking something like Írissë Fanyakánë, or “white commander.” But she would go by Írissë, which would be her amilessë in this case.


CHAPTER 4 TITLE
Chapter 4


CHAPTER 4 INITIAL NOTES
Reconnection; discovery.

Content warning for discussions of Angband-typical abuse.

Also, this chapter contains sexual content, but I would give it an M rating.


CHAPTER 4
A few days later, when Maitimë was consistently more lucid, she impressed upon him the importance of confronting his father. Findekáno protested—he was still loath to leave her side for anything other than fetching food or water or running to the privy—but it seemed important to Maitimë. And he supposed he was being rather clingy.

“If you don’t want me around,” Findekáno said at last, not able to look her in the eye, “I can leave.”

“No!” Maitimë reached out and gripped his arm. “No. I mean—” She swallowed. “You should see your family. You need to; I know you have only spoken a few words with any of them since you returned. And I cannot go with you, nor should I. But I—I don’t want you to leave.”

Findekáno shifted. She had sworn she still loved him, but he knew her better than anyone—or he had, at one point. She was very different now—they were both very different—but still, for Maitimë to love a nér, when she had long scoffed at the prospect...

“Maitimë,” he murmured, “are you certain? I—I have hurt you terribly. I would understand if you—”

“You saved me,” she said simply, and he found himself loft in the soft, tender grey of her eyes. “How can I not love you for that?”

“But I am—changed,” he said helplessly, gesturing at his hröa. It brought him such joy, such confidence, in a time when those things were hard to come by. And yet...

“So am I.” Maitimë released him, waving her hand at her own marred form. “And you love me still. Why should I not return that devotion?”

“I know you do not find the male form pleasing...” he began.

Maitimë laughed bitterly. “I find little pleasing these days.” Her gaze unfocused, darkness creeping back into her eyes. “In Angamando, they—do things to you. Dreadful things. And I—did what I could to protect myself, but...” Her hand hovered over her belly, as if it ached with the memory. “There is—a cost. To everything.” She swallowed, closing her eyes. “I cannot...I have looked upon nothing with desire since they first touched me.”

“Maitimë,” Findekáno whispered, sitting down at her side. He did not touch her; he had learned, these past few days, that it was better if she initiated contact between them, even a simple caress.

She sat still, staring into the distance. “I have felt nothing of...of who I was, since then. I never questioned it, before. I was a nís, and I desired níssi. But now...” She shook herself, turning back to face him, but her face was still blank and empty. “I am nothing. I desire—nothing.”

Findekáno held back his pain as best he could. He loved her, he loved her all the same, but to see her so miserable made his heart ache. “I...” He swallowed, trying to find the right words. “I will do whatever I can for thee, Maitë, and...and ask for nothing more.”

“Kánë—Finno.” She grasped his hand with her own, the only one he had left her. “Thou art always the exception. When I thought I wanted no sweetheart, only a rotating cast of lovers, thou wert the exception. When the very thought of marriage repulsed me, thy fantasies were the exception. When I foreswore all others save my father, thou wert the exception. When I swore not to mourn any of the dead, thou wert—” Her voice broke. “Thou art always my exception, Findekáno. I love nothing; I desire nothing. And yet—I desire thee.”

“Maitë,” he croaked, and she turned his head to kiss him for the first time since he lay dying.

“Show me,” Maitimë said, staring at him with half-lidded eyes.

It had been some weeks since she first had kissed him in this new hröa, and she had regained some of her strength. He had spoken to his father and his sister and the brother he still had, and not long after his father had come to visit Maitimë at her sickbed. Findekáno was still hesitant to leave her side, half for fear of her worsening while he was gone and half for reluctance to face his people, only a handful of whom seemed to understand how he had returned.

Turukáno urged him to address them as their prince, dared him, even, and seemed satisfied at his hesitation. Írissë muttered that he feared Findekáno would usurp his position as High Prince, for all their father was not technically the King, but the very thought was ludicrous to him. It was Turno who had been raised their father’s heir, though he was the eldest; he did not want to take that from his brother, nor did he want such responsibility, not if it would take him from Maitimë.

Today his excuse for staying with his beloved was to help her write a letter to her brothers. The Fëanárian camp across the lake did not even know she lived, and though she seemed reluctant to involve them in her recovery, she had agreed to Ñolofinwë’s insistence that she at least inform them of her rescue. But as of yet she still could not write with her left hand, so Findekáno had volunteered to be her scribe.

Six drafts of the letter lay crumpled on the floor, and now as the Sun sunk low beneath the horizon Maitimë lay sprawled across her bed, her nightgown splayed loose around her legs. Findekáno had long since stoppered the ink bottle in favor of lounging in the chair at her bedside and idly playing with her hair, exchanging lazy words between them, politics and bothersome brothers forgotten in the simple pleasure of one another’s company.

“What?” he hummed.

“Show me,” Maitimë said again, her eyes gleaming silver in the rising Moonlight, almost as bright as they had been before her captivity. His hips were level with her pillowed head, and she fixed her gaze not on his face, but his waist. “Your new hröa. I want to see.”

Findekáno swallowed. “You mean...?” he asked breathlessly, heat rushing through him.

She smiled slowly, looking every inch as wicked and seductive as she had been in Aman. “I want to see you,” she rumbled. “My lovely Findekáno.”

He reached for the laces of his tunic with shaking hands, pausing before he disrobed. “I am—different,” he warned. “I am not...what I once was. If you do not find me pleasing—”

“How many times must I reassure thee?” she chided, running her hand through the remnant of her long, fiery hair. “Thou canst do nothing but please me, dear Finno.” Her smile gentled. “Please. If—if thou wilt.”

His heart racing, Findekáno tugged off his shirt. He hadn’t had much chance to truly admire his new hröa, busy as he had been, but he was filled with elation each time he remembered how flat his chest was, how broad his shoulders. He had worked to make them so, before, but now he did not need to make the effort. He did not have to fight his hröa to make it right.

“Beautiful,” Maitimë murmured, admiring his bare chest. “But this is not all.”

Findekáno’s mouth went dry. “You mean...”

“I cannot provide thee comfort,” Maitimë said frankly. “Not—not as I am. Not now. Mine own hröa is...hurt. Healing. But—I want to see thee as thou hast always dreamed. Wilt thou show me, Findekáno?”

Findekáno moaned softly at her words, feeling his cock stiffen in his trousers. “Yes,” he breathed. “Yes, Maitë, whatever thou desirest.”

“I desire thee,” she purred. “Show me.”

Findekáno shucked off his trousers and his underthings, shivering in the cool night air. They had not lit a lamp yet; only Moonlight filtered through the seams of the tent. His cock—his cock!—was half-hard and hardening just from the light chill, Maitë’s gaze heavy upon him, the utter impossibility of the situation, all his yearnings fulfilled. Well, not all. But enough. More than enough.

Maitë took him in, her eyes dragging up and down his naked form. She blinked slowly. “Mm,” she hummed. “Interesting.”

“If you don’t like it—” Findekáno hurried to say, but she cut him off with a look.

“I want to see,” she said. “I want you, Finno. I always will. This form, separate from thee, stirs nothing within me—though I think thine old form would do nothing for me either, now—but it is full of thy fëa, thy spirit, and to hear thee and see thee in pleasure...aye, that will please me greatly, even if my hröa cannot yet rouse itself.” Her voice took on a teasing tone. “Must I ask thee again?”

“No,” Findekáno stuttered, feeling very young and inexperienced again, as he had their first time together. And in a way, this was their first time again.

He hadn’t...he hadn’t truly done this yet. There had been too much going on: a lover to save, a people to return to, and then he was utterly focused on Maitimë’s recovery and reconciling with his family. But he had slept, and woken up hard, and clumsily taken the edge off—yet it was all practical, not pleasure for pleasure’s sake. This...what Maitimë was asking...he wanted it so badly. He wanted her so badly.

He reached down and took himself in hand. He stroked himself slowly, wonderingly, remembering how the few néri he’d pleasured before he was with Maitimë had liked it. He spat on his palm then returned to the task, coaxing himself to full hardness, an easy task with the sensations so new and Maitimë right there.

He wanted her. He wanted her to want him. He wanted to kiss her, he wanted to taste her again, get drunk on her cunt, slip inside her the way he’d always dreamed, stuff her full with his seed...

Some of that came spilling out. He knew she had endured much, and much of what he wanted against her own will, so he kept his filthier desires to himself, but ai! Her eyes darkened and she smiled when he confessed how much he wanted her.

This would not be forever. Maitimë wanted him. In time, she would have him. In time, he would have her.

And now—Findekáno shuddered, feeling his balls tighten, preparing for his release. Now that he gave himself over to it, now that Maitimë looked at him with such hunger—

“You are beautiful like this,” Maitimë whispered. “Strong. Handsome. Happy. You have always been, but you are even more now, dear Finno.”

“Maitë,” he groaned, his stuttering as he thrust into his fist. “Maitë, ai, beloved, vanimelda—”

“Do you remember what you told me you wanted?” Maitë crooned. “Your massive cock in my mouth? My legs spread wide, my cunt slick, hungry and dripping for thee?”

“Maitë,” he gasped.

“I am slick now, darling,” Maitë murmured, pushing up her skirts, revealing her hot, wet core, where Findekáno had spent blissful hours lapping up her pleasure. “I have not been wet like this in three yéni. But for thee—”

“Maitimë!” Findekáno cried, and spilled over his palm, his vision going white for a brief moment.

“Beautiful,” Maitimë said approvingly when he came to, beckoning him close to her, into her bed. “Findekáno. My prince. As you always should have been.”


CHAPTER 4 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 5 TITLE
Chapter 5


CHAPTER 5 INITIAL NOTES
A knight and a prince.

herunya = “my lord”
Russanya = “my Russa”; in general, -(n)ya means “my __” (seen also in yonya = “my son,” meldanya = “my love,” etc.)


CHAPTER 5
“I am not a king,” said Maitimë, and Findekáno could barely believe it.

“But—” he began, only for Maitimë to smile that sad, crooked smile.

“I was, once,” she admitted. “Arantári Nelyafinwë. But I was defeated and taken and destroyed.” She shook her head. “I am not the same nís you loved, Findekáno.”

“Nor am I,” Findekáno whispered.

“No. You have always been the nér I love.” She caressed his face, and he shuddered, his fëa flooding with joy despite the pain apparent on her eyes. “Even when I did not see it.”

“Maitë...” He sighed, taking her hand, the one she retained. The one he had not robbed her of. “I want to be your knight, meldanya. A knight to his king.”

Maitimë fell smoothly to her knees, looking up at him with lidded eyes. “Can I not wish the same, my prince?” she rasped. “A knight to—to their prince?”

All of a sudden it clicked into place: what Maitë had been saying, what she had endured, what she wanted. Findekáno had felt much the same—and yet much different—and now he understood.

“Nelyafinwë Maitimë,” he said, kneeling beside his beloved. “Thou desirest to be my knight?”

Maitë swallowed. Suddenly Findekáno’s mind was filled with lewd visions, of her lips around his cock, but ah, they were not there yet. Still, he hoped, someday...

“Aye,” she whispered. “I desire that, herunya.”

Findekáno kissed her gently. She moaned under his touch; he felt so alive with her. This is what he had died for. This is what he lived for.

“Then gladly I will accept thee into my service,” he murmured. “And knight thee as thou desirest.” He hesitated, for just a moment, hoping he was reading his lover right—but with the trust shown to him now, it was clear. He knew.

“I dub thee Sir Russandol, in vassalage to Prince Findekáno,” he declared. “My loyal knight. My beloved.”

“My liege, I am thine, always,” Russandol croaked, and Findekáno kissed his lover again.

“Thank you,” Russandol whispered, clinging to him in their bed. They were naked, pressed skin to skin; they had not yet touched each other as they had once, as Findekáno dreamed, but this intimacy...it was more than enough.

He had kissed his lover senseless, been stripped bare, returned the favor, pressed his lips to every inch of scarred flesh, but did not push further. Russandol shuddered and gasped beneath his touch, but did not ask for more, not yet. Now his love’s hands were tangled in his hair, long legs wrapped around his torso, and Findekáno buzzed with joy. He wasn’t even hard—though he had been earlier—he just...he loved this. He loved Russandol.

“Whatever for, meldanya?” he asked.

“For...saving me,” Russandol murmured. “For returning for me. For forgiving me. For accepting me, loving me, for...for naming me. For seeing me.”

“Always,” he promised. “Always, always, Russandol.”

Russandol was weeping. He brushed aside those tears, concerned. “Russanya?”

“That is my name,” came the choked reply. “Russandol. My other names—Nelyafinwë is too formal, too pointed. A king’s name, and I am no king, no longer. Maitimë...that is who I was, not who I am. I am not fair. I am not...I am not a nís.”

“Beloved,” Findekáno murmured. “Ai, dear one...art thou...?”

“I am not a nér, either,” Russandol said softly. “I am...I do not know what I am. Perhaps I am nothing. It feels that way, save for when I am with thee.” The grip in his hair tightened. “I am thy knight. Sir Russandol.”

“My Russa.” Findekáno reached to twine their fingers together. “Sir Russandol. And...ought I to refer to thee as such, in public?”

“I will make my declaration soon,” Russandol murmured. “Give the kingship to thy father, my brothers be damned. I will send them away; Makalaurë has never been a leader, but he has become one in need. He will keep them in line, or at least keep their trouble away.”

Findekáno laughed softly; they both knew the odds of the Fëanorions staying out of trouble were very low. But if anyone (other than Russandol) could orchestrate them into haranguing each other instead of wreaking havoc among their allies, it was Makalaurë.

“And I shall swear a new oath,” Russandol continued, voice rising in passion, “to thee, as thy vassal, thy knight, and serve thee always. All shall know: we have hidden our love too long. I care not for laws and customs. I care only for thee. Let them think what they may, say what they wilt! Thou art my prince and my liege, and that is all that matters.”

Findekáno kissed those crooked lips. “Of course,” he said, his voice rough. It would not be easy—it was not easy, returning as he had, as a prince, from the dead, and Russa’s return was no easier. But it would be worth it. And perhaps they could still run away together, to the east with Russa’s brothers—or not, and make their own lands, fight against the Enemy together. He had never been his father’s heir; that was Turukáno. He did not expect that to change now.

“Of course,” he repeated, “but I meant...I am a ‘he,’ now. Art thou also?”

“I...” Russandol sighed. “I know not. Perhaps I am...a ‘they.’ Not a ‘she.’ ‘He’ shall suffice if needed, I suppose; even ‘she’ I will shoulder. Those I care for—thee, and perhaps my brothers—to those dear ones, I will be ‘they.’ Everyone else can call me what they wish; I care not.”

“Sir Russandol, knight to Prince Findekáno,” he said softly. “A noble and valiant warrior. They art a mighty foe of the Enemy indeed; we owe them a great debt for their service.”

“Ai, Finno,” Russandol whispered, and they drew him close and kissed him.


CHAPTER 5 FINAL NOTES
In this verse, Turgon is Fingolfin’s heir, and thus has pressure on him to stay with his father—which is to say, he does not run off and found Gondolin. Also, because of the way Maedhros was raised, there is less pressure for them to step back into a leadership role with their brothers, leaving Maglor the leader of the Fëanorians. They probably could have taken over again if they wanted to, but given the different dynamics of Maedhros and Fingon both having been raised as female, things shake out differently than they do in canon. (Also, give me a break, I really just want a world where they can be together!!)

I know that technically Quenya only has one pronoun, “se,” rather than “she/he/they,” but this fic is written in English so I thought it was important to have a section where Maedhros discusses their pronouns. There are other terms in Quenya that are gendered, so consider this a stand-in for a discussion about how they would like to be called in those scenarios.


CHAPTER 6 TITLE
Chapter 6


CHAPTER 6 INITIAL NOTES
A blessed union.

This chapter includes some more callbacks to maedron’s fic. It also includes sexually explicit content at an E rating, though it is the only chapter in the fic rated that high, so I’ve kept the overall rating at M.
(Though, if anyone thinks I should change the overall rating, let me know!)

nómilt = precome; milt = come


CHAPTER 6
Findekáno had imagined his wedding night differently. There was the practical version: him in a gown, wed to a faceless nér much taller than him (but not taller than Maitimë) who stripped him and deflowered him without emotion. This vision made him sick to his stomach, but he knew it was the likeliest one, if he ever were to wed.

The other version—the one he had dwelt on, his fingers in his cunt and a braid in his mouth to keep him from crying out—was the one where he was marrying the only person he truly loved. In this vision, everything was as he had thought it should be: himself, tall and broad and muscled and endowed with an enormous cock, his cheeks flushed from excitement and from dancing at their splendid party where he had kissed his bride most scandalously in front of her furious father. Maitimë knelt before him, nude and lovely as she always was, ready to feast upon him.

But the actual night was much different from either dream or nightmare.

There was no party. It had not even been planned. Russandol’s father was dead, his own father far away in Hithlum, and only their soldiers were here in Himring with them, sleeping in their barracks. It was just him, and Russa, and the night.

They were buzzing from wine and happiness, still drunk from their victory earlier in the day, and Russandol looked at him with glittering eyes. Ai, they had never been more beautiful, and Findekáno told them so, overflowing with wild desire.

Many decades had passed since the rescue. In that time, they had lain together as they had in the past, Findekáno drinking from his beloved, playing with them the way he knew they loved. And together they had learned Findekáno’s new hröa, all its pleasures and delights, all the ways to torment and overwhelm him.

But there was one boundary they had not crossed. Their souls were separate, and they had not dared to join as spouses might, Findekáno sliding home inside Russandol. Russa was scarred, still, from their time in the Enemy’s clutches, and Findekáno had no desire to hurt them further. His fingers were enough; his mouth was enough. And so were theirs for him.

But tonight, this night—

The air between them felt different, somehow, as Findekáno extolled Russandol’s fairness and bravery. They grinned at him with pointed teeth, pounced on him and tumbled him into their bed, and Findekáno laughed breathlessly as they stripped him bare.

But then Russandol paused.

“Finno,” they whispered, looming over him, a strange light in their eyes. “Finno, I—”

Findekáno reached up to stroke their cheek. “Meldanya.”

Russandol shuddered, blinking rapidly. “I want you,” they said.

“I would hope so—” he began to tease, but fell silent when he saw the depth of passion in their eyes.

“I want you always,” Russa said. “I want—” They frowned, clearly struggling to find the words. They were not as eloquent, now, as they had been in Valinórë; it was harder for them to express their thoughts. Sometimes—much of the time—Findekáno wished they were wed and bonded, so they might communicate easier. “I want...you.”

“As do I,” he said gently. That had never been in doubt.

Russandol shook their head. “I mean—I want you. Forever. I think—I think I am ready now.”

Findekáno stared at them for a moment, and then in a flash he understood.

“Oh,” he breathed. “Oh. Oh, Russa.”

“Wilt thou have me?” they asked, trembling as they traced the line of his collarbone with their one hand. “Findekáno Astaldo, my prince, my savior...wilt thou take me not only as thy knight, but as thy spouse?”

“Yes, yes,” Findekáno promised. There was no reason to hesitate—he hadn’t truly dreamed of this since they were reunited, hadn’t dared to hope, but now to be offered everything he wanted—

“I want you inside me,” Russandol said, and looked a little surprised at the statement. “I think—I think I’ve wanted it since I truly understood what you had become, only I was afraid—but after today, after our victory, I am not afraid any longer. I want you and I will not wait any longer!”

“Russandol,” Findekáno whispered, drawing them into a heated kiss, rolling them over so he was on top. “Ai, Russa...I want you, I want you, I want you...”

“You have me, my prince,” Russandol growled, spreading their legs, and Findekáno moaned. His cock was hard without any attention, so eager was he for this consummation; he rubbed against their belly, leaving streaks of nómilt on their pale, scarred skin. Russandol groaned, biting at his lips and then pushing him lower, lower...

“Finno,” they hissed. “Findekáno. Now. I will not wait another minute.”

“I—” He swallowed. “Do you want—my fingers—”

“I want your cock, husband.” They sank their nails into his backside, jerking him forward. He could feel their slick leaking out of them, dripping onto his cock, and he was so close already—

“Fuck me,” Russandol ordered, and ai, even though he was the liege and they his vassal, he was weak for an order. Clumsily, he positioned himself over Russa’s hole, the blunt head of his cock nudging at their entrance, and then—

“Russanya,” he gasped, and pushed inside.

Tight, wet heat engulfed him, almost more intense than he could bear. It was—so good, he couldn’t have dreamed—he lost himself in the feeling, pressing deep, so deep until he couldn’t feel anything but Russa, their inner walls so hot, so tight, so home. He shuddered as he bottomed out, pressing his face into the pillow of Russa’s chest, heaving out his breath.

Findekáno, whispered Russandol in his mind. Findekáno...

Russandol, he moaned, not sure if he spoke aloud or in their minds, but it didn’t matter. He was home—finally—where he belonged.

Move, Russandol demanded. I said fuck me, not fill me.

Dost thou not love how I fill thee, spouse? he tried to tease, and he felt their pleasure in return, and knew exactly what he must do.

Findekáno drew back, groaning at the friction of Russandol’s walls around him, then thrust back in. Russandol growled, tugging him closer, kneading his ass, and ai, that drove him even wilder. He set a swift pace, losing himself in his beloved, his spouse; he spoke their name and Eru’s a thousand times, felt the bond between them glow with copper-gold light, tying them together. The threads were already there—had always been there, maybe—but now he saw them, felt them, knew them, and knew they would never be parted again.

Russandol pushed him over, lifting off him for a moment, and for a split second Findekáno feared they had changed their mind, that they weren’t actually ready—until they flipped him onto his back again and sank down on his cock with a lewd moan, long and low and guttural, animal and full of such pleasure that Findekáno didn’t need the bond to know how much they loved this, loved him. But they had the bond now, and with it he thought he might die once more and become one with his spouse’s spirit in every possible way.

But he was already one with them, and as they rode him fast and hard, he cried out, on the verge of his release.

“Fuck, fuck, Finno,” Russandol cried, taking him deep into their perfect, beautiful body. “You’re so good—so big—filling me so deep, fuck, fuck, I wanted this so bad—I put it off for too long—you’ve been here, you’ve been mine—!”

“I’ve wanted you forever,” he choked out. “Before I had a cock I knew I wanted to fuck you with it—I was only afraid you wouldn’t—”

“You, you, you,” Russandol moaned. “My heart beats only for you— In my past life I would never have thought—I would never have dreamed—but I have this now, I have you now, and—fuck—Findekáno—”

“Russa, I’m—” he tried to warn, the effort of staving off his release almost too much to bear. He would pass out if he didn’t come soon; he’d done it before, albeit intentionally amid one of their games.

“Fuck,” Russandol gasped, clenching around him, slamming their body down onto his own as hard as they could, until Findekáno was sure he could see his cock bulging from within their belly. “Come for me, love, come in me—mmph—we must join with thy seed—I want it, fill me—”

For the briefest moment Findekáno mourned that he could not put a child in them, for Russandol had gone barren since Angband, but it mattered not. They wanted him, he was inside them, he—

He let go and came, pulsing into his spouse in waves, leaving them both gasping. He felt Russa’s release around him, and dipped his fingers to their pearl, coaxing another climax out of them, and another, until he was hardening inside their still-twitching hröa, and then he rolled them over again and Russandol disengaged from him. When they flipped onto their stomach with their ass in the air, he forgot everything but them, for the sight of his come pouring out of their hole was the most erotic thing he could ever have imagined.

“Fuck me, fuck me,” they pleaded, and the only thing more arousing than them ordering him around was them begging.

Findekáno wasted no time. He shoved back inside them, feeling his own seed slosh around inside them, hot and sticky and filthy. His fingers found the rim of their other hole and he played with the puckered entrance as he had in times past, slicking it with their mixed release and leaving them a sobbing mess. He watched his cock sliding in and out of Russandol’s willing body, and ai, he was drunk—drunk on their cunt again, as he always was, the sound and the feel of it, and he wondered what he would taste like on their lower lips.

He came at the thought, burying two fingers into their ass, and they sobbed and came with him. Findekáno pressed their abused pearl some more, until they shook with the toll their climaxes took on their body and he knew they could take no more.

Husband, Russo whispered, staring back at him as they collapsed into bed.

Spouse, he replied dreamily. They were married; they were bonded. He felt Russandol warm and solid in his mind, and he clung to them as tight as he could, hröa and fëa. There was nothing better in all of Arda than this, than his Russa.


CHAPTER 6 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 7 TITLE
Chapter 7


CHAPTER 7 INITIAL NOTES
Life at its end; life at its beginning.

As this is a canon divergence AU, the main battles of Beleriand do not break down the same way they do in canon. However, this chapter covers the events of a battle that is basically the Dagor Bragollach; I’ll go into a little more detail in the end notes.

 

Atya, Atto = father/daddy
Nossa = diminutive of “nostar” aka “parent” (my creation)
yonya = my son
yelya = my daughter

 

Also: Next week is Finwëan Ladies Week, an event that I mod, so I will be busy running that and I won't be able to update this fic until Monday, October 11! Thank you for your understanding!

This chapter is, personally, my favorite one :) But you know I'm a sucker for Russingon babies.....


CHAPTER 7
“If you could,” Findekáno asked, “would you change your hröa?”

Russandol hummed, considering the question. “To be like yours?” they asked, running their hand down his side, then between his legs, cupping his groin. Findekáno moaned softly, but didn’t chase after the touch when his spouse let go. That wasn’t the point, not now.

“Yes,” he said.

“Hmm,” Russandol mused. “No, I think not. Before, certainly not. And even now...” They shrugged. “I feel very—detached from my body.”

“Oh?” Findekáno ran his own hands down Russa’s body, cupping their round breasts and flicking a thumb across the nipple they still had.

Russandol shuddered. “Ai, Finno...with you, I am always here. But without you...”

“I am only curious, vanimelda,” he murmured. “We are very different in this way, and I simply wondered if you would wish for a change as I did.”

Russandol let out a short bark of a laugh. “No. If I died, I would not return at all.”

“Russa!” Findekáno protested, the very thought piercing his heart.

Russandol kissed him slowly in apology, reaching up to grab a fistful of his hair. You know it to be true, they reminded him, their words gentle. The Oath binds me.

You swore an oath to me, also.

And that is why I do not intend to ever die. Russandol broke the kiss, their hand still tangled in his braids. “I could never leave you,” they whispered. “Not again.”

But...?

They sighed. “But...if I could... I would not fit into the hröa I once had. I am not Princess Maitimë; I have not been for a long, long time. To return to that form, unmarred—I would not be myself. And even if I were allowed to return, I doubt I would be permitted to recreate this ugly hröa.”

“You are beautiful,” Findekáno insisted fiercely.

“To you,” Russa laughed. “But not to any other.”

Findekáno set that aside. He was determined that one day they would acknowledge their own beauty, but it was not today.

“But...if, right now, you suddenly had the option to keep your hröa except to—to gain a cock,” he said, “would you do it then?”

“Would you want me to?” Russandol asked slyly.

“No! Or—yes?” He fumbled over his words, unsure of the right thing to say. “I mean—if you’d want to. I love you as you are, but I would love you in any form—”

“You have proved that again and again,” Russandol murmured. “Do not worry, meldo. I was only curious, myself.”

“But...” Findekáno was uncertain why he needed to know, but he did. “Would you...?”

“Mm. No.” Russandol blinked, their eyes glazing over as they thought. “The only thing I would change...” They hesitated. “I miss the use of my hand.”

Findekáno’s face darkened with shame. “I’m sorry,” he croaked. “If there had been another way—”

“Shh, shhh...” Russandol kissed him into silence. I know. I know. “I do not regret it—and, if anything, it is a reminder of thy love and devotion. I would not undo the severing: but if I could, I would restore it.” They looked away. “And...I would restore one other thing, also.”

They took Findekáno’s hand and rested it on their belly. “My womb is long barren. A good thing, for I fear what monsters they would have bred in me, had I not taken this precaution. But with thee, beloved...”

“Thou desirest a child?” Findekáno whispered. He had never dared hope—the thought rarely even crossed his mind, knowing Russa as he did. He had assumed that even if it were possible, Russandol would not wish it.

“Aye,” Russandol admitted. “Another change, from who I once was. As a nís, I would never have wanted such a thing. But as...whatever I am now...” They squeezed his hand. “I am thine. And I would love any child of ours.”

“We shall have to procure one, then,” Findekáno said firmly.

“What? Finno—!”

“Elves die all the time in Beleriand,” Findekáno insisted. “Sometimes they have children who survive them, though there are fewer births these days. If we ever find a child in such a situation—”

“Findekáno,” Russandol said exasperatedly, and kissed him, the most reliable way to make him stop talking. “Oh, Findekáno, thank you. I love thee.”

I love thee also, he replied, and lost himself in them.

“Lalwen is—?”

Findekáno nodded grimly. He ought to have more tears to cry, but this year had taken so much from him already. So many followers, so many friends, lost to the Sudden Flame...and his family, also. He had wept himself dry when Aredhel died, had gone battle-mad at the news of Aegnor and Angrod’s deaths—now, when Lalwen had fallen also, he had little strength left to mourn.

“Oh, Finno,” Russandol said, embracing him carefully, comforting him. For all Lalwen and the others were their kin, also—and they did grieve—they had not lost any of their brothers. Not yet. “I am so sorry...”

“But,” Findekáno croaked, “she left us...she left Atya with...him.”

He cradled an infant in the crook of his arms, Lalwen’s last gift to Arda before her passing. She had been gravely wounded riding to Hithlum, and had gone into labor upon arrival, passing away almost as soon as her child took its first breath. The tragedy was so great Findekáno could barely comprehend it. They did not even know who the sire was. Ñolofinwë had found a mortal wet-nurse for the baby, but even as the fighting ground to a halt he was too busy to care for his nephew, and had passed responsibility off to his son—well, the son who was not his heir.

Russandol kissed his forehead, gently taking the slumbering babe into their arms. “And your father gave the child to...to us?”

“I think...” Findekáno swallowed. He wants to keep me safe. If I am looking after Lalwen’s son, I cannot rush into battle, despite having held Himring with Russa for centuries. He knew his father only wanted to protect him, a noble instinct, but it chafed at him. After losing Aredhel, it was as if he could not help but see Findekáno as his daughter again, despite everything.

He did not voice this. He knew Russandol could already feel the conflict in his mind—but he also knew that he could not disobey the High King, especially not with a little one’s life in the balance. And furthermore...

“He guessed we wanted a child.” When put that way, Findekáno could almost smile. “And...he is the High King. He cannot care for a child himself, even if Lalwen wished him to. And—and who else would it be? We must keep him safe within the family. Itarillë? She is unwed, and overseeing fortifications. Turukáno is a general—Maeglin is barely out of childhood himself...”

“You are a general,” Russandol said mildly. “And—especially now, Himring is no place for a child to grow. We have left Makalaurë in charge of the fortress for too long, you know we must return soon...”

“Do you not want...?” Findekáno asked tremulously. He had thought—and he wanted, so terribly, even now—

Russandol’s eyes softened. They held the child with such care already, and he could sense the longing in their fëa. Their concerns were practical, not emotional.

“I do,” they whispered. “Ai, Finno, I do.”

“Then we will make our home safe for him,” Findekáno vowed, leaning against his spouse, staring down at their son. I will not lose another to this awful war.

(Two days later, Fingolfin faced Morgoth in single combat.

Three days after that, Turukáno was crowned High King of the Noldor.

Within four more days, Findekáno, Russandol, and little Gil-galad departed for the North once more.

They would not fail. They would not. For the sake of their son—their star; their hope—they would fight and defend and ensure Himring did not fall.

There was no other option. Not for them.)

“You—what?! But—how? You said—!”

Russandol laughed, tears budding in their eyes. “I know,” they said, their voice rough with emotion. “I thought so. But it seems—well—a miracle.” They drew him close and kissed him, joy bubbling up within them as Findekáno had not felt since the day they had joined in marriage. “I would not call it such if it did not involve thee, meldo. Thy love and light are the only miracles left in my life.”

“Don’t let our son hear you say that,” Findekáno teased, feeling dizzy with the sudden shock of happiness. “Oh, Russa...” He laid a palm on their belly, wondering at the spark of life he felt there, when they had thought such a thing impossible. “What will we tell Gil?”

“He’s a growing young nér,” Russandol dismissed. “If he asks questions, that means he’s ready to hear the answers—”

Findekáno laughed and leaned his head on their shoulder. “That’s not what I meant, though you are right,” he said. “I only...I don’t want him to think we are replacing him, or any such thing.”

Russandol raised an eyebrow. “Have you ever felt you loved him less because he was not ours by birth?”

“No! Never!” Findekáno insisted. “And I will love him just the same, even now that we have such a child as well. They shall both be our children, equally, I—”

“Then do not fear,” Russandol said gently, squeezing his hand. “Thou art an excellent father, dear Finno. Thou shalt only become a better one with another child to love.”

“And thou art an excellent spouse,” Findekáno whispered. “And an excellent parent. Oh, Russa—what could I ever do without thee?”

“Better than I could do without thee,” Russandol murmured. “But let us never find out for certain.”

“She’s so tiny,” Gil-galad whispered, his eyes as round as the moon.

“You were tinier, when we first got you,” Findekáno teased. Ai, he had been a little scrap of a child, born too soon and under such difficult circumstances—but they had taken him into their hearts and their home, bonded with him and loved him, and he was strong and hale now, as much as any other elven child.

“No way!” Gil protested.

“You get it from Atto’s side of the family,” Russandol said drily, though of course as Lalwen’s child he had no blood from his nossa’s Fëanorian kin. “Nolofinwëans are notoriously small.”

“Not true!” Gil said. “Uncle Turno is huge!”

“Not when he was a baby,” Russandol said smugly. “I was gigantic from birth!”

“And we are all glad little Erien is not,” Findekáno laughed, stroking his daughter’s fiery hair. “For it seems she takes after you in all other ways.”

Erien chose that moment to open wide her blue, blue eyes, and Gil-galad gasped.

“Atto! Look!” he exclaimed. “She’s got your eyes!”

“So she does,” Russandol said softly, “and I will ever love her for them.”

“I’m gonna be the best big brother ever,” Gil-galad proclaimed. “Atto, Nossa, what did you do to be good big brothers?”

His parents exchanged a look. “Well,” Findekáno said, “we were not big brothers, not at the time. For a very long time, my family thought I was an elleth.”

Gil-galad blinked up at him, confused. “What?”

“And for an even longer time, I was an elleth,” Russandol added, and Gil’s brows only furrowed deeper.

“So...I might turn out to be a big sister?” he guessed.

Findekáno ruffled his hair. “If that is what your fëa tells you, then perhaps,” he agreed. “But you needn’t worry about it if that is not how you feel.”

“Tell me the story!” Gil-galad begged. “Is it as exciting as the one about you rescuing Nossa from the mountain?”

“That is part of the story,” Russandol said. In their arms, Erien burbled happily. “Ai, yelya,” they teased, kissing her nose. “Do you want to hear the story too?”

Findekáno settled down beside his spouse, pulling Gil-galad into his lap. “It all began a long time ago in the land of Valinor,” he began, “when your nossa and I were very young, and being rather naughty together...”


CHAPTER 7 FINAL NOTES
So, in this version of the Bragollach, Aegnor and Angrod die like normal, but also killed in the fighting is Aredhel (after Maeglin has been born; how did that whole situation break down? I don’t know, but there is no Gondolin, so definitely not the same way it did in canon). As in canon, Maglor loses the Gap and flees to Himring; this allows for him to hold the fort while Fingon and Maedhros ride to Hithlum to take counsel with Fingolfin and adopt a baby. Lalwen, heavily pregnant, was injured trying to get a message to Fingolfin; she goes into a premature labor and dies shortly after the birth of her child, whose sire is not known.

I went over this in the text, but shortly after Russingon adopt Gil-galad, Fingolfin goes out on his suicide mission, leaving Turgon to become High King, as he has been Fingolfin’s heir since Aman and Fingon did not press the issue when he came out. Everything with Finrod & Nargothrond goes down the same way it did in canon, as do all the Fëanorians fleeing their lands except for Maedhros, who remains in Himring. C&C go to Nargothrond; Caranthir goes to Amon Ereb with A&A.


CHAPTER 8 TITLE
Chapter 8


CHAPTER 8 INITIAL NOTES
A fortress falls.

Very glad to be back to this fic <3 And only one chapter left to go!! Ahh!!

This battle isn’t exactly a Nírnaeth-equivalent the way the previous one was definitely a Bragollach-equivalent, but it is devastating in a similar way. More details in the end notes.


CHAPTER 8
“Go,” Findekáno ordered, his patience running thin.

“I am thy knight—”

“And should listen to mine orders!”

“Findekáno, no—” Russandol protested, grabbing at his reins so he could not ride away. “I cannot lose thee—”

“No more than I could lose thee!” Findekáno cried. “Russa—”

“We ought to stay together,” Russandol begged. “My love, my liege—”

“And what of the children?” he demanded. “Do you think either of us could live knowing we had failed them?”

“Do you think they could live without their father?” Russa countered. They buried their face in his horse’s mane for a moment, then looked up at him with red-rimmed eyes. “If—if I must go, Finno, you should come with me. We—we were not born for this.”

Findekáno surveyed the battlements of Himring grimly. They were besieged by orcs on three sides, stayed from storming the fortress only by Celegorm and Curufin’s command over the battlements; Maglor was already out in the field with his cavalry, and needed support. All that held Findekáno back from entering the fray was the stubborn refusal of his spouse and children to flee south to the Havens. They were losing so many soldiers, keeping the southern gates clear—this battle would turn to a siege no matter what, and the sooner Russa and the children left, the sooner he could sound the retreat and strategize for how to withstand the assault.

“I was reborn for it,” he said grimly. “And thou hast become harsh by necessity.”

Russandol’s eyes hardened, and their hand went to their sword. “You cannot keep me from a battle that is rightly mine,” they hissed. “Himring is as much my fortress as yours—”

“And yet I outrank you,” Findekáno snapped. “You begged for this, Sir Russandol—you pleaded to become a knight to your prince, instead of me becoming a knight to his king! Wouldst thou betray thy fealty now?”

Russandol trembled, equally enraged and terrified. It hurt, to see them like this, to know he was the cause of it—but he could not let them stay. If it were only the two of them—but it was not. And he could not risk the children’s lives like this.

“I am not keeping thee from battle, Sir Russandol,” he insisted. “I am sending thee into danger—if Himring is besieged, how fareth the other strongholds of the Noldor? The roads are not safe. But the children must leave, and I would trust no other than thee to protect them!”

“I do not care if Himring is lost, not if I lose thee with it,” Russandol wept. “Ai, Findekáno—I lost thee once already—”

“Thou wilt not lose me again,” he promised. “Now go. That is an order, Sir Knight.”

“Aye, my liege,” Russandol said in a broken voice, and turned from him to the terrified faces of their children half-hidden in the stables.

“The King is dead,” cried the herald, “and the Prince with him!”

Russandol clutched their son’s hand tightly, Erien cradled close to their chest. She was so small, even seven years after her birth; small enough to hold with one handless arm. Gil was awkward and gangly, on the edge of adulthood, but still so young, so very young.

And now he and his sister had lost their father.

Now Russa—now Russa had lost their husband.

They would stay strong. They had to, for the sake of the children. Even if their soul was broken without Finno, they would live for Gil and Erien. They had raised him, borne her, and would count them as their blessings, but without Findekáno—

He had promised. He promised he would live. Russandol should not have left him—they should have died with him; sent Gil and Erien with other guardians and stayed in Himring defending their prince—or, or it should have been Findekáno who lived. He should have lived, even if Russandol had to die for him.

That is why I do not intend to ever die, they once had promised their husband. But now death was all they could hope for, if they wished to be with him again.

But—not yet, not yet. Gil-galad wept silently, leaning against them, and in their arms Erien squirmed and cried out in confusion. She didn’t know what had happened—she knew Finno only as Atto, not as Prince Findekáno—

And then Russandol felt a tug at their soul, so bright and firm and familiar that they gasped and slid to their knees. Erien wriggled out of their grasp and clung to her brother’s leg as Russandol clutched their chest, lost in the feeling of—of—of Findekáno?

The clouds parted, and there he was: the gold in his hair bringing the light of the Sun even amid the rain as he wandered wearily into camp. So few, so few of their warriors had survived to guard him on his journey south—but he had survived, and in this moment Russandol cared only for that miracle. They would mourn their fallen friends later; for now, they rejoiced.

“Stay here,” they ordered the children, and hobbled forward to their husband. They had been injured on the road; nothing that wouldn’t heal given time and rest, but enough to impair their movement—so frustrating at a time like this when all they wanted, needed was Findekáno in their arms!

Finno, they sang through their bond. Findekáno, Finno, my love—!

Findekáno’s head snapped up, the misery in his eyes washing away the moment he saw them. He shoved aside the aide he was talking to—was it Duilin, that lordling of Turukáno’s?—and raced through the crowd, barrelling into Russandol so hard they both collapsed in Sirion’s mud.

Russandol didn’t care. They were holding their husband, and he was kissing their face, their hands, their chest, and they were sobbing and he was sobbing and they were together and hope was not lost, never lost!

“The children—?” Findekáno asked between kisses.

“Safe,” Russandol croaked. “Waiting. I left them only for a moment—”

“And thou?”

“Fine.” They hid the pain of their injured leg from him, the way they had learned to hide their lingering aches and pains over the years. “Oh, Finno—they said you were dead—”

“They said the King and the Prince were dead,” Findekáno said grimly, his weary sadness overtaking him once more. He pulled himself to his feet, then helped Russandol up. “My brother—and Maeglin...”

Russandol would grieve for them later. Turukáno had always been an ass, but he was proud and fearsome and a decent king; Maeglin was moody and shy, but not in a way they couldn’t understand. But for now, they cared only about their husband’s survival.

“Are they not respecting you as a prince?” Russandol growled. “Must I—?!”

“I was not the Crown Prince,” Findekáno said. “Not the one everyone wanted news of. And, well, yes, there probably is some of that, but it’s not...I am fine, Russa.”

Russandol would have protested—he was clearly not fine at all, the only one of his family left standing, unless Itarillë was somewhere among the crowd of survivors—but then the children came tumbling toward them, having disobeyed their order to stay put. Findekáno wept and embraced his son and daughter, holding them close, and Russandol stepped in to encompass them all in their arms.

Safe. Together. The world was ending, the House of Finwë falling to pieces—but their little family was whole, and that was all that mattered in the moment.


CHAPTER 8 FINAL NOTES
So, like I said, not exactly a Nírnaeth Arnœdiad, but still quite disastrous for the good guys. There was no Union of Maedhros (not yet), but both Hithlum and Himring fell. No one has heard from Nargothrond, Doriath isn’t sending out help to anyone, and the Havens of the Falas are suddenly overflowing with refugees. Turgon and Maeglin die defending Barad Eithel; I didn’t mention it in this chapter, but Celegorm and Curufin die defending Himring and guarding Maglor and Fingon’s retreat. (Everything with Finrod and the Silmaril quest went the same way it did in canon, so they were in exile and probably trying to make up for their misdeeds by going down heroically in battle.) Caranthir and the Ambarussa are holed up in Amon Ereb.


CHAPTER 9 TITLE
Chapter 9


CHAPTER 9 INITIAL NOTES
The end of all things.

Thank you all so much for coming with me on this journey! This is the last chapter of this fic, and I am eternally grateful to each of my readers, especially those of who you have left comments. <3 <3 <3

 

The first scene in this chapter takes place maybe a day after the previous chapter.

Content warning for brief misgendering in the second scene.


CHAPTER 9
“The people need a king,” Russandol insisted.

Findekáno paced across the muddy ground of their makeshift strategy tent. Their advisors—Duilin, Itarillë, Maglor, Círdan, Thalion—had been sent away; Duilin and Itarillë to rally the remnants of Turukáno’s folk, Maglor to write to Caranthir and the twins at Amon Ereb, Círdan to meet his blood-son for the first time, Thalion to embrace his wife and children. Only Findekáno and Russandol remained, the air crackling with tension between them.

“No,” he snapped. “Absolutely not.”

“We do need—”

“That isn’t what I meant—”

“You are the only one left—”

“I was not raised for this!” Findekáno cried, turning to glare at them. “It was always Turukáno—”

“And he had his chance, and died!” Russandol boomed, their voice loud and fierce. “You are a prince, Findekáno—and the only heir of your father that yet lives!”

“Arakáno—”

“If he has been reborn, he is Aman,” Russandol growled. “You are here. The people need you!”

He tugged at his braids, not caring that it would make his hair frizz. “Surely there is someone else...!”

“Who?” Russandol demanded. “Who, Findekáno? Finrod is dead. Angrod and Aegnor are dead. I am out of the question, and if you truly mean one of my brothers, you are out of your mind, even if the wildest of them have perished—”

“Then—they need not be of our generation!” he protested. “What of—Orodreth?”

“We have no news from Nargothrond,” Russandol said, “or were you not listening to Maglor’s report? Even if he stands, he is a terrified princeling who dares not leave his halls, not that I blame him.”

“Then it need not be a nér! Artanís—”

“Assimilated into the Sindar and never leaving Doriath.”

“Itarillë, then—”

“She is barely holding together what remains of her father’s people!” Russandol shook their head. “Who would you next suggest? Little Finduilas? Our children? Would you place such a heavy burden on Gil? On Erien?”

Findekáno recoiled. “No—I could never—!”

“It has to be you, Findekáno,” Russandol said gravely, rising to their feet and placing their hand on his shoulder. “Finno. Look at me.”

Findekáno looked up into his spouse’s eyes. In the long years since Thangorodrim, some of the light had returned to their eyes, and it shone brighter now than it had since Valinor, a silver gleam full of such intensity that he trembled. Russandol believed in him, as they believed in naught else.

“We need a leader,” they rumbled. “And you are Ñolofinwë’s son, Turukáno’s brother. You must take up the crown.”

“I thought you gave that crown to my father to avoid royal obligations,” Findekáno whispered. “Now you would foist them upon your own husband?”

“I gave it up because I was unfit to be King,” Russandol corrected, “and because my brothers would have destroyed the Noldor from within. For the same reason, I now give it to thee: there is only one High King of the Noldor in Middle-earth. And it is you, my liege.”

“Russa...” he croaked. “What will I do?”

“Rule,” they murmured, pressing a kiss to his brow. “Protect what remains of our realms. Gather our strength for a counterattack.”

“The Enemy will expect it,” he said.

“Aye. But he will not expect our unity.”

Findekáno sniffled. “Our union? I believe we never kept our marriage a secret, Russandol...”

Russandol laughed softly, tilting his head up for a proper kiss. “Thou’rt trying to distract me, Finno.”

“Perhaps.” He let a tremulous smile form upon his lips. “But...why not?”

“What dost thou mean?”

“Why not a Union?” Findekáno’s mind began to spin, a half-formed plan taking shape. “Not of fëar and hröar, but of—of peoples. If I were High King, could I draw the rest of our kin out of hiding? Would Orodreth and Artanís come to our aid?”

“The Falathrim are already with us,” Russandol said slowly, a spark of fire catching in their eyes. “And loath though Thingol may be to fight alongside Kinslayers, perhaps for Círdan’s sake the Iathrim might be swayed...”

“For Gil’s sake, perhaps.”

Russandol stiffened. “He is not fighting—!”

“As our herald, then!” Findekáno shoved them lightly. “If we...ai, it is cruel to use him as a political pawn, but we know now that Círdan was Lalwen’s partner. If I as his father and Círdan and his sire ask Thingol together, to aid his kin...”

“Thou art wise, my king,” Russandol murmured, nipping at his ear.

“Mmm.” Fingon sighed, turning his neck for his spouse to press soft kisses to it. “From thy lips, that is not so bad a title...”

“I will say it again and again, my king,” Russandol whispered. “I live to serve thee.”

“Very well, then,” Findekáno conceded, and felt the weight of responsibility settle upon his shoulders. “But know this is a heavy Doom—”

“I know it well.”

“—and know it is thy doing, Sir Russandol.”

Russandol bowed, falling smoothly to their knees, heedless of the mud. “I submit to thy judgement, my king.”

Findekáno’s blood rose to see them like this, supplicant before him. He chuckled quietly, checking that the tent-flap was tied shut, and opened the front of his robes.

“Then come forth,” he declared, “and receive it.”

“We are staying,” Findekáno announced.

The Maia looked at his battle-wearied form, unimpressed. “No.”

“We are.”

“You are not permitted.”

“Will you force us?” he challenged. “Make your masters our jailors, as Fëanáro once claimed?”

Eönwë hesitated. “Lord Manwë was clear,” he said. “All Kinslayers must return to Aman for judgement.”

“And yet others may stay at their leisure?”

“Your Majesty—”

Findekáno laughed. “I am not the High King of the Noldor, not any longer. I never wished for that title.”

“Good,” Eönwë said. “Arafinwë is a better king than—”

“Do not imply my husband is inferior to our uncle,” Russandol growled.

Eönwë looked at them in disdain. “Arafinwë is obedient.”

“Not a quality most admirable in leaders,” Russandol remarked.

“You would do well to remember that it is Manwë who is King of Arda, not one of the Firstborn!” Eönwë cried.

“Yet the Ainur came to Arda to prepare the world for us,” Findekáno pointed out. “You are bound to obey your king—we have free will. And I choose, freely, to remain here in Middle-earth, with my spouse, where no Vala shall determine my fate. Not again.”

“Manwë is merciful,” Eönwë entreated.

Findekáno softened, remembering Sorontar’s aid all those centuries ago. “Yes,” he agreed, “and Námo is also, more than one might think. But though I am no longer, I was once a King, and I shall yet rule my own fate.”

“If you had pleaded a duty to your people as their king, perhaps—” Eönwë began.

Findekáno laughed again. “I have had enough of duty!” he exclaimed. “The only responsibilities I wish to bear now are faithfulness to my spouse, and love to my family!”

“Our son is the High King now,” Russandol said, a looming shadow at his shoulder. “If you would rather speak with him about our fate—”

Eönwë raised his wings, huffing in defeat. “Ai, you are stubborn creatures!” he grumbled. He paused, then said one last time, “There is healing in Aman. For both of you.”

“We have one another,” Findekáno said firmly. “That is enough.”

“For you, perhaps,” Eönwë said, and turned to look pointedly at Maedhros, “but what of—her?”

A rage long-tempered flared to life once more within Findekáno’s breast. “They are perfect exactly as they are,” he seethed.

“Finno,” Russandol said softly, placing their hand on his shoulder. “I can defend myself.”

Findekáno stepped back, fuming silently. Russandol looked at Eönwë, their eyes so piercingly silver, as if they had caught the light of the Moon within the same way they once had caught Telperion’s glow. Ai, Findekáno loved them.

“What healing may come to me in Aman is not worth the price of my hard-won freedom,” Russandol said evenly. “We have fought this war for centuries: you only finished it. Now we would enjoy the peace so many we love have died for.”

“In Aman, you may see those who died once more,” Eönwë beseeched.

“And perhaps someday, we shall,” Findekáno agreed. “But as for now, we remain.”

“The Ban will not be lifted always,” Eönwë warned. “The grace we give you now is not forever.”

“Nor will it be enforced always,” Russandol countered.

“Grace!” Findekáno snorted. “You do not offer us grace—you offer us chastisement, as if we have not suffered enough for the blood of Alqualondë!”

“We yet hold the Silmarils—” Eönwë cried.

“And our children have held them in their hands,” Russandol growled, the invocation of their father’s jewels lighting a fire within them that Eönwë’s condescension had not. “The Oath is broken! My brothers are dead, save Makalaurë—and we, the eldest of Fëanáro’s children, want nothing more to do with those accursed stones!”

“Then go your own foolish path!” Eönwë cried, turning away from, his feathers ruffled in agitation. “But I have warned you! My duty is done.”

“As is ours,” Findekáno said snidely, “but we have no master to charge us with further tasks.”

Eönwë leapt into the air without another word, soaring away. Russandol watched after him for a moment, then sighed, gathering Findekáno in their arms, his back against their front.

“I suppose we needn’t have been so rude,” they said mildly.

“He wouldn’t have listened to us,” Findekáno disagreed.

“Mm,” Russandol conceded. “Perhaps. In any case, I am tired of politics and compromise. Let Manwë shake his head at us—we are free, now!”

“I am so proud of thee,” Findekáno said fondly, reaching behind himself to pat their cheek.

Russandol chuckled, their laughter shaking his body. “Whatever for?”

“For everything,” he said earnestly, turning to face them. “Thou art my life, sweet Russa. Thou art the reason I take breath. Dost thou think I would have left Mandos’ halls so swiftly, had it not been for thee?”

“Ai, Finno...” He knew what they were thinking, that he would not have been in Mandos had it not been for them, but a soft caress against their mind pushed that ancient guilt aside.

“I am with thee,” he promised, kissing them softly. “Always, my love.”

“And I am with thee,” Russandol whispered, and kissed him back.


CHAPTER 9 FINAL NOTES
I mentioned (Húrin) Thalion as one of Fingon’s advisors; that was directly post-Nírnaeth time period, so the children I mentioned are Túrin and a baby Niënor (and possibly Lalaith? maybe she didn’t die in this verse?). Several decades pass between the first and second scenes, so while Tuor and Túrin’s stories definitely break down much differently (and hopefully happier for Túrin! I think a battlefield romance between him and Beleg would go down much better in a verse where there’s no curse over Húrin and his family), the main results of those stories do happen (aka, Eärendil is born, Glaurung is killed, Nargothrond falls, though that last one isn’t necessarily related to Túrin).

How did everything break down in the War of Wrath? Aside from what I put in the text—idk, man, you fill in the gaps. There was a Union of Fingon and Maedhros that was much more successful than in canon, but the war drags on for decades, and isn’t fully completed until the Host of the Valar arrive (when and why? idk). I can say for certain that somehow Elrond and Elros do exist, I could never make it so they weren’t born!! Maglor and Elwing and Eärendil are probably having a custody battle over them while Maedhros and Fingon argue with Eönwë, though since the Second and Third Kinslayings didn’t happen I don’t know how Mags got involved with all that, lol. I do think Caranthir and the Ambarussa died sometime in the War of Wrath, but again I don’t know the details. As for what happened with the Silmarils and the Oath, again, idk! But Gil and Erien (now mostly grown up) were definitely a part of it, and they got their unsullied hands on the jewels, fulfilling the Oath. After all, they are Fëanáro’s kin!

As for what happens after this—who knows! But Russingon do get to settle down while Gil-galad becomes an excellent king, and eventually I think they do sail to be with their re-embodied loved ones, but not after a very long time of living together in mostly-peace :)

Thanks for reading, and please comment if you enjoyed!
You can find me on tumblr @arofili.