TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Elves on crack	Clara_Jimmy	2017-12-04	2023-05-04	11,518	26/?	39	91	6	2,000

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Teen And Up Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien, TOLKIEN J. R. R. - Works & Related Fandoms, The Lord of the Rings - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Finrod Felagund | Findaráto & Turgon of Gondolin, Maedhros | Maitimo & Maglor | Makalaurë, Fingolfin | Ñolofinwë & Fingon | Findekáno, Celebrían & Galadriel | Artanis, Fëanor | Curufinwë/Nerdanel, Celebrían/Elrond Peredhel, Celegorm | Turcafinwë/Lúthien Tinúviel, Erestor/Glorfindel (Tolkien)	Fëanor | Curufinwë, Curufin | Curufinwë, Námo | Mandos, Vairë the Weaver, Irmo | Lórien, Finrod Felagund | Findaráto, Turgon of Gondolin, Beren Erchamion, Orc(s), Original Characters, Celegorm | Turcafinwë, Maglor | Makalaurë, Maedhros | Maitimo, Morgoth Bauglir | Melkor, Fingolfin | Ñolofinwë, Fingon | Findekáno, Galadriel | Artanis, Celebrían (Tolkien), Celeborn (Tolkien), Nerdanel (Tolkien), Shadowfax (Tolkien), Hasufel (Tolkien), Arod (Tolkien), Glorfindel (Tolkien), Elrond Peredhel, Círdan | Nowë, Lúthien Tinúviel, Elu Thingol | Elwë Singollo, Melian (Tolkien), Erestor (Tolkien), Arwen, Elrohir (Tolkien), Éomer Éadig, Elladan (Tolkien), Nerdanel, Caranthir | Morifinwë, Amras (Tolkien)	Crack, Humor, Alternate Universe, Quenya Names, Halls of Mandos, Prophetic Dreams, Dagor Dagorath, Far Future, Outer Space, First Age, Second Age, War of the Last Alliance, Resurrection, Minor Violence, a crossover with A Song of Ice and Fire I guess, Years of the Trees, Silmarils, Third Age, middle-earth, Lothlórien, Prophetic Visions, Doriath, Menegroth, Middle Earth, Mirror of Galadriel, Imladris, Explicit Language

SUMMARY
Crack-fics, AUs, just very short writings mostly. Basically anything that´s crazy or strange enough.
What it looks like when my stories smoke crack.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
iPalantír (or No new phone for you)


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
I hope you enjoy this!
Let me know if you think there are any errors (for instance in grammar, not logic).

Curufinwë wants a new phone, but Fëanáro disagrees.
I don’t know what was happening when I wrote this.


CHAPTER 1
“Father, I want the new iPhone!” Curufinwë whines, hitting the table with his fists.

“No! You´ll get a palantír instead!” Fëanáro replies and points at him as if giving a warning, his eyes uncompromising. The boy scowls, rolls his eyes and starts howling, infuriated. Now he will make a fool out of himself with some junk his dad made.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Quenya names:
Fëanáro is Fëanor and Curufinwë is Curufin.


CHAPTER 2 TITLE
The call of Mandos


CHAPTER 2 INITIAL NOTES
They say that when an Elf dies they feel the call of Mandos, biding them to come to his Halls.
Mandos has a difficult job, or existence rather.


CHAPTER 2
“Could you lend me the phone now?” he asked, growing irritated.

“I´ve told you, just a second,” she replied, covering the speaker and whispering in his direction.

“Vairë…,” Mandos moaned, “this isn’t your random everyday Elf, this is Fëanáro we are speaking about! I need to make a call!”

“But I am talking to Tulkas now!” she replied and continued in her own conversation, meanwhile deftly crossing two threads in the tapestry, which was almost entirely black, with a single beacon of light in the darkness.

In the end Mandos got his turn to use the phone and dialled the direct line to Endórë, calling Fëanáro, leaving it to ring forty two times, but he never picked up. Afterwards Námo sat upon his throne in the Great Hall and hoped the Elf would find the way on his own and show up. But he never did.

----

Mandos was panicking. There were throngs of Elves in need of a call and he couldn’t find the phone. Vairë saw him all but run into the hall she was in, working at the newest tapestry which was as long as half of the chamber already. Her needles were moving swiftly and she had the phone balanced between the shoulder and the ear. As soon as she started to embroider she thought Nienna might want to hear what was up. Mandos hurried towards her.

“There you are!” he exclaimed, “I need the phone, Vairë, now!”

“Me as well!” his wife replied, “Nienna´s heaving a breakdown… Or maybe you want to talk to her?” Námo made a face and stepped back.

“Not right now,” he spoke, “there is a much more urgent matter here, I have to call three Fëanárions.”

“They´ll wait,” she retorted, weaving together several threads. He made a grab for the phone, but Vairë managed to keep it.

“Eru damnit! Vairë! For the love of this world, this is serious!” he raised his voice. Vairë gave him an annoyed expression, rolled her eyes, but mumbled a goodbye into the phone and walked to him, handing the phone to her husband. He mouthed his thanks, already dialling the appropriate number. Neither of the three picked up. But nerves wouldn’t give him a break and Námo called for a second time, only to reach someone named Únandil, hanging up in hurry.

----

Then it happened again. And like before the phone wasn’t where it should have been. There were many expecting his call, especially Ambarussar, the Fëanárion twins. But this time Vairë didn’t have it, she was standing on the tallest ladder, embroidering a silver wing.

“I don’t have it, dear!” she called down to the tiny figure below. And a good thing, throwing the phone from this height would probably kill it, she mused.

“Then where is the cursed thing?” he called back.

“Irmo had it!”

“What is my brother doing here?”

“See the tapestry, don’t have time now!” she dismissed him, quickly crossing several long threads. Námo glanced at the tapestry depicting Irmo and then found him, sitting on his throne, his feet on the armrest, the Hall´s phone in his hand.

“Give it now!” he commanded. Irmo looked up.

“The phone, give it to me right now, I have to make an important call!” he said, walking to him.

“Can´t, you see Manwë is telling this joke-,“ he replied, but Námo seized the phone and knocked his feet off the throne.

“Hey!” Irmo protested, but Námo was already dialling Endórë. He gave up after five hours, sighing.

“Looks like nobody´s doing their job here,” a venomous voice said from behind him. Mandos turned and his eyes laid on Fëanáro. He was leaning on the doorframe, a smug expression on his noncorporeal face.

“Where the hell are my sons,” his voice grew dark. Mandos prayed for his nerves to endure.

----

“I need to make a call,” he said, his voice urgent.

“Well, so do I,” Vairë replied calmly, “you´re just gonna have to wait.”

“Damnit, but this is an important one,” Mandos impatiently tapped his foot on the floor, “Maitimo Fëanárion has just offed himself.” To this Vairë said nothing, only leisurely pointed to the wall. Turning, he saw the large tapestry, all red and orange.

“So you can understand I have an important call to make,” he spoke, reaching for the phone. Vairë evaded him, standing up and then covering the speaker with her hand.

“But I do as well,” she told him, “I´m talking with Estë right now. Go use the other phone.”

“We don’t have another one,” he grunted.

“I know,” she replied, “don’t worry, he´ll wait.” Námo rolled his eyes and Vairë smiled kindly at him. But when he finally called, nobody answered.

----

At that moment Mandos finally lost his patience and marched out of the Halls, going straight to Aulë´s place.

“You have to make me another of those phones,” he said. Aulë raised an eyebrow, but didn’t object. He set to work immediately and before the night ended Námo had a completely new phone. He would keep this one in his pocket. He returned home, showing it to Vairë proudly.

“I have a feeling Macalaurë Fëanárion will need a call soon,” he said, “anytime now.” Vairë looked at him oddly and got back to embroidering a blue wave and he went to the Great Hall. He took a seat on the throne, put the phone down and waited.

“Anytime now…,” he sighed, watching the phone intently, drumming his fingers on the armrest.


CHAPTER 2 FINAL NOTES
The names that are in Quenya:
Endórë is one of the names for Middle-earth
Fëanáro is Fëanor
Fëanárion means son of Fëanáro
Ambarussar are Amrod and Amras
Maitimo is Maedhros
Macalaurë is Maglor
Únandil means Destitute/Forlorn Lover/Friend (úna+ndil) (from realelvish.net)


CHAPTER 3 TITLE
The dream of Sirion, the aftermath


CHAPTER 3 INITIAL NOTES
So you´ve had a divine vision? What follows the experience Findaráto and Turukáno had at the bank of Sirion.


CHAPTER 3
Turukáno lifts his head and props himself up on an elbow. His face immediately distorts into an ugly grimace.

“Ah… man, I had the strangest dream…,” he groans, “what the fuck did we do last night?”

I am not faring much better. The world sways left and right, up and down, someone is slamming me into the head with an iron pole, my stomach twists… Not good…

“Ehg….” The sound that comes out of me speaks highly of my disposition.

“Fuck…,” I manage to moan at last, “it must have been that damned wine…”

“And the fucking berries…,” Turukáno adds.

“And the mushrooms…” I remotely recall devouring a handful of some suspicious fungi.

“I dreamed of a valley,” he mumbles slowly then, squinting his eyes to the morning sun.

“I dreamed of a cave…,” I say and scowl. Why do I have to dream about some dirty holes in the ground?


CHAPTER 3 FINAL NOTES
Quenya names:
Findaráto is Finrod and Turukáno is Turgon.


CHAPTER 4 TITLE
Inconsequential


CHAPTER 4 INITIAL NOTES
The end of the world comes, but nobody cares. Poor Morgoth.

Tolkien says that the world will end with the last battle, Dagor Dagorath. Morgoth will break free and destroy the Sun and the Moon and, presumably, everyone will fight and the fallen Vala will be defeated. I always thought that even thousands and thousands of years (and even thousands and thousands of Ages from the point of view of the Elves) would be almost nothing compared to the amount of time that is still to come before the End. I expect a full colonisation of the universe by then.


CHAPTER 4
She looked out of the wide window and stared into the outer space for a moment. Her home, the second district of the Nightshade galaxy, beautifully dark and with only a hint of blue and purple, harbouring milliards of planets, stars, outposts and ships, the sight was as elevating as ever.

“Just some tiny star and some asteroid,” she said, turning back to the room.

“And where exactly?” he asked, frowning, as he tried his best to recall, but it really didn’t sound familiar whatsoever.

“In the X01A223i sector,” she read on the little purple screen in front of her, “somewhere on the outskirts… used to be the founding colony or something, I thought it was interesting.”

“Oh that…,” he murmured. He vaguely remembered having this information shoved in his mind when he was a child. He considered it, it was something of a fun fact.

“Anyway, let´s go out tonight, what do you say?” He smiled at her and she nodded. Taking their identity chips from the table they turned off the lights and left the room.


CHAPTER 4 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 5 TITLE
A wise plan


CHAPTER 5 INITIAL NOTES
Finrod´s and Beren´s aliases when confronting Sauron were rather dubious and silly.

From the tolkiengateway: “Dungalef (reversal of the name "Felagund") was the name Finrod Felagund took upon himself during the Quest for the Silmaril when disguised as an orc. His companion, Beren Erchamion, took the name of Nereb.”
What were they thinking?! And it´s not even reversed properly! It should be “Dnugalef”…


CHAPTER 5
It worked, they were slowly transforming into looking like those creatures, the skin underneath their clothing turning sallow and dark, with visible scars and sores, their faces changing into distorted and unnatural shapes full of malice. Their own clothes didn’t stay the same either, now they were all wearing black and the fabric was thick and tattered and dirty where it wasn’t covered by any armour.

Beren looked around, only seeing eleven more like himself, and it felt utterly strange, knowing these were his companions, friends, elves he knew by names, and not his enemies. He thought the one with the pointy nose who was inspecting his sleeve was Finrod and so he addressed him.

“That at least seemed to work. So, what is the second part of the plan?”

“The castle. We go inside,” the false orc replied, his eyes still on the sleeve.

“Like… just like that?” he asked, still not sure.

“You´re right, we need more disguise!” Finrod said excitedly.

“Like what exactly?” Thalawestorion, maybe, wanted to know.

“Like names,” Finrod replied, giving him an annoyed look, “I can´t go there and say something like, hey, hello, this is the King of Nargothrond, Finrod Felagund here, Nóm, if you like. They would laugh at us, everyone knows I have golden hair.”

“So what names do orcs have anyway?” one not-orc asked.

“No idea, but…,” Finrod appeared to be thinking, “hm…… oh, yes! My name is going to be Dungalef and you Beren will be............ Nereb.”

“Oh, thanks…,” he muttered.

“And you, Ningannelion, you are…”


CHAPTER 5 FINAL NOTES
the OC names:
Thalawestorion means Son of a Steady Oath Brother (thala+gwest+tôr+ion)
Ningannelion means Son of a Tears of a Harp (nîn+gannel+ion)
(from realelvish.net)
Have fun reversing these names, Nóm.


CHAPTER 6 TITLE
Anárion´s last stand


CHAPTER 6 INITIAL NOTES
The depiction of the most heroic and honourable death of Anárion, son of Elendil, King of Gondor, Founder and Lord of Minas Anor... by a ROCK hitting his head.

I was reading a page on the tolkiengateway and then I came to this: “The Allies entered Mordor and laid the Siege of Barad-dûr, but Anárion was slain by a thrown rock in 3440.”
ARE YOU FUCKING KIDDING ME?! TOLKIEN?!?!! WHAT THE ACTUAL FUCK?!!! A ROCK? A FUCKING ROCK?!
I think this part of the Legendarium needs a bit of revising. Who cares who Gil-galad´s parents were, just get rid of this rock nonsense.
But realism, I suppose. I would be the first one to point out that such deaths happen and not every character should get a heroic death, even if they deserve it.
BUT ARE YOU FUCKING KIDDING ME, TOLKIEN?! A FUCKING PIECE OF ROCK?!
But perhaps it´s fitting for a king of Gondor (rock land).


CHAPTER 6
Burzmal took a swing and then let the rock leave his hand. It fell down, all the way from the highest point of the Black Gate, until it hit a target he only wished it would hit. He couldn’t aim that well. There was a reason why he and Lugrukh were ordered the maintenance duties and guarding. Still, one could have a bit of fun here and there, Burzmal was sure. The army outside was something he liked to look at and laugh. All those wretched tarks and pointy ears below them, thinking they could outsmart their Lord. They were nothing compared to the Red Eye.

“There´s another for ya!” Burzmal croaked.

“Ha! Yeah, you got him good,” Lugrukh was laughing, leaning on the ramparts and looking down, “my turn next.” He grabbed one of the rocks from the pile on the ground, a chipped off piece of the wall, squinted his yellow eyes and then threw it.

“There ya go, nasty tarks,” he exclaimed. They both laughed harshly and then continued to play some more and the little pile got smaller and smaller.

“And this one!” Burzmal screeched as another rock flew down and this time it also managed to hit someone, crushing the helm.

“Hey, you two dipshits!” a roar came from behind them and they both shrieked in fear, turning immediately. Nogrut was standing in the tunnel leading from the Black Gate, raising his famous axe menacingly.

“Stop that bullshit and get back to your work! Stone not yours! Get working!”

Lugrukh and Burzmal scurried away, keeping their heads down, muttering in agreement, and Nogrut still smacked their heads for good measure.


CHAPTER 6 FINAL NOTES
The word “tark” was used by the orcs of Cirith Ungol to refer to Men descended from Númenor.
The orcish names are what I came up with. Nogrut is an homage to Finrod´s impeccable creative linguistic skills. It was a surprise, but it works rather well as an orc´s name :D


CHAPTER 7 TITLE
Káno


CHAPTER 7 INITIAL NOTES
Maglor is resurrected as a chicken.

I have heard that “kana“ means chicken in Finnish. I will forever treasure that information in my heart. Really, Finnish x Elvish convergences are a goldmine.
Kanafinwë (or Canafinwë) is one of Maglor´s names. One of those prophetic one, as it turns out.


CHAPTER 7
It was just as he remembered from his stay there; the trees, tall or small, stood like guards and provided shelter and comfort, their leaves rustling softly, flowers sprang everywhere they wanted, and the air was clear and fresh. Everything that made up the vast Gardens only served to create a peaceful atmosphere for anyone who might need it. The Sun went down two hours ago, and the world was now coloured in greys and dark greens and blues, the night sky was lightly scattered with stars. Lórien lead the way and soon, they reached an open meadow by the lake. No one else was there except for the black clad figure who could only be Mandos. But where was his own brother?

“Tyelkormo,” the Vala of Doom regarded him, “I am glad to see that you are doing well.” Tyelkormo nodded respectfully and then looked around the glade once again, expectantly searching the shore and the willow trees.

“So… where is he?” Centuries, it has been centuries since the news of Kanafinwë´s death. He has been in the Halls for a long time and they have waited for what would happen next. Everyone has been beyond anxious to welcome Káno back into the life in Aman.

Mandos and Lórien exchanged a glance he couldn’t quite read and then Mandos looked at him with an expression than made even less sense; he smiled.

“He is here,” he spoke, but Tyelkormo didn’t understand. The area was empty; only the three of them, the quiet lake, the trees... He frowned.

“Your brother chose an unusual way of returning to life,” Lórien spoke gently and finally Tyelkormo´s eyes followed to where they were looking, to the ground and to… a chicken?

“What the hell is this?!” Tyelkormo motioned towards the ground angrily and then stared at the two Valar. His mind was in turmoil. He realised he has been ignoring the animal standing right next to Mandos, scurrying a little occasionally. What was happening?! What was this chicken doing here? Could- could it be? No. No… no... but then… Could it really be him? Could… Kanafinwë be a chicken?

“I must be honest, this new hröa suits him perfectly. It has always been his fate,” Mandos said in a calm voice, “this is what he wished for.”

“What, to be turned into a fowl?!” Tyelkormo snapped and then retorted derogatively, “…I don’t believe you…” He folded his arms across his chest and scoffed, but then he noticed the chicken looking at him and it clucked and started to walk towards him.

“Kana… Kanafinwë?” he asked warily and slowly approached the animal, “…brother, is that you?” Tyelkormo crouched on the grass and tentatively run his hand over the soft feathers. He could sense his brother´s fëa distinctly now. This really was his brother. It was Káno and he seemed serene, content and… happy? He clucked again, and the sound was excited and happy and in that second something in Tyelkormo switched and he started laughing.

“I have missed you so much, Káno!” he exclaimed and ruffled his feathers and Káno scuttled around and clucked, sharing in his joy.


CHAPTER 7 FINAL NOTES
Names in Quenya:
Tyelkormo = Celegorm
Kanafinwë = Maglor

Hröa = body
Fëa = spirit/soul


CHAPTER 8 TITLE
One autumn afternoon


CHAPTER 8 INITIAL NOTES
Being pretty is so hard. Modern AU.

Autumn is here. It´s been getting cold, here, in the northern hemisphere, and I´ve been willing myself into an autumn mood. Though it feels more like winter already.
Is this even crack?


CHAPTER 8
“It´s like they don’t even see me for me, just my face and how I look like!” Maitimo said, his expression still utterly forlorn, and he kicked at nothing on the street, “you know?” He turned to Macalaurë, who has been walking next to him, mostly silent so far, but now he looked up at his brother.

“I know it bothers you Nelyo, I understand,” he said, arranging his shawl closer to his neck, protecting himself against the autumn breeze, “but I don’t know what else to tell you. We´ve talked about this so many times.”

“You really don’t have to say anything else,” Maitimo said and stopped abruptly, “hit me in the face, Cáno.”

“What?!”

“Hit me, please, then everything will be alright, and people won´t stare at me like they do now. I´ll be normal, better maybe I´ll even be slightly ugly!” Macalaurë continued to stare at him, blinking in surprise, trying to say something but no words came out of his mouth.

“Do something with my nose,” Maitimo said and took Macalaurë´s hand, bunching it into a fist and resting it against his nose like it was the most natural thing to do.

“No! Maitimo stop!” Macalaurë exclaimed and wretched himself free, staring at him with wide eyes, as other people passed them by on the street, glancing at them with suspicion or amusement.

“Why not? You´ll help me, Cáno, please, I will buy you the new guitar strings you wanted.”

“No,” he replied, then thought about if for a second, felt appalled by himself and said, “no!”.

“Cáno!” Maitimo moaned and took his hand again, bringing it to up his face. Macalaurë seemed like he was considering it again.

“Maybe I should sit down so I am not that tall?”

“I am certainly not going to hit you then!” At that moment a group of young women passed them in the opposite direction, their eyes clearly set on Maitimo, and two of them giggled. Maitimo just groaned and looked away and Macalaurë sighed. Both annoyed, they hurriedly resumed their walk home. There was silence for a while, only the sounds of the traffic and the wind getting stronger.

“I will tell mom and dad what you did with Daeron last Tuesday after practice,” Maitimo said, looking straight ahead. His brother gasped, stopping, looking first horrified, then scared and then smug.

“You won´t have the guts anyway,” he replied, “you´ll blush so hard your head will explode. Ha! That might solve your problem!”

“Cáno!” Maitimo exclaimed in a whiny tone and then, “please.”

“No.”

“Please.”

“Never.”

“I´ll buy you the strings. A whole new guitar! Something else. Anything.”

“You will regret it.”

“I won´t. Just hit me.”

“Argh…. Nelyo…”

“I cannon bear it anymore! People don’t take me seriously. They are never interested in me. Just my looks.” Maitimo´s expression was desperate and sad once more. Macalaurë rearranged the shawl that kept unravelling. He rolled his eyes and then grumbled something.

“What?”

“I said alright.”

“Really?” Maitimo felt more ecstatic than he had in months and when Macalaurë nodded he nearly bounced up and down with joy. Macalaurë took him by the hand and dragged him to the side.

“Just quickly. Where should I do it.”

“My nose!” he replied eagerly, smiling brightly.

“No, I meant where, someone might see us,” Maglor said, looking around the street.

“Hm… let´s go to the park, it will be quiet there!” Maitimo pointed across the street to where the rather jumbled tree line began.

“What will you even tell everyone? Mom and dad, when they ask?” Macalaurë asked him as the traffic light turned green.

“I don’t know, that doesn’t matter anyway,” he replied, “I´ll say I fell on the street or… got into a fight in a bar.” Macalaurë scoffed.

“Like you are the type to cruise night clubs and get into fist fights,” he told him, “too bad you´re not as clumsy as Carnistir... Alright… you fell.” They entered the park and looked around. The path to the left seemed empty so they chose it and came to a halt after a minute or two, thinking the walnut tree would hide them. Macalaurë stood opposite Maitimo and took a deep breath.

“You really are tall.”

“I can sit down.”

“Don’t you dare.” Macalaurë raised his fist and with a lot of deliberation he finally struck Maitimo in the face, hitting the left side of his nose. Maitimo stumbled backwards and his hands instinctively flew to the injury.

“Oww! Motherfucker, that hurts!” he whined and paused for a second, “alright, hit the other side, you have to break the bone.” Macalaurë glanced at him uneasily, inspected his fingers, looked around if anyone was watching them, took another breath and punched him again.

“I´ll never forget this,” Maitimo said, rather nasally.

“Me neither.”

“You´re the best brother ever,” he said through the blood spilling down onto his chin, dripping on his sweater, “I love you so much.” Macalaurë swung him arm again.


CHAPTER 8 FINAL NOTES
Little does he know that Fëanáro will rush him to the ER and make sure his nose is treated and repaired. Little does Fëanáro know that Maitimo will somehow suffer another unfortunate nose injury soon afterwards.

Names in Quenya:
Maitimo, Nelyo = Maedhros
Macalaurë, Cáno = Maglor
Carnistir = Caranthir


CHAPTER 9 TITLE
A dark message


CHAPTER 9 INITIAL NOTES
What is GRRM trying to tell us about the Valar?

I have recently realised that the words from A Song of Ice and Fire, “Valar Morghulis”, could easily be from Tolkien´s universe, and actually, they may have an interesting meaning. Cue all the jokes and conspiracy theories about the Valar being evil and having their own shady intentions.
“Valar” is easy, it means “the powerful” in Quenya, and like this it means Manwë, Varda and co.
“Morghulis” could have the Sindarin words “mor” and “gul” in it, meaning “black/dark” and “magic/sorcery”.
Make of that what you will, but I think we are in for a surprise when The Winds of Winter is released. Secretly a Silm fanfic???


CHAPTER 9
“…Valar… morgulis,” she whispered with her last breath and her head fell to the ground.

Nolwírë frowned, confused for a second, and scared, as the words registered in her mind and as she knew the woman gone. She recognized the jumbled combination of Sindarin and Quenya. The Valar? The Valar… black magic? The Valar practice dark magic? And everything became clear, it was coming together. She felt terror in her veins.

The two Maiar on Emerald Street that she was not supposed to see… The eagle in the square… How Arcalimë said her son didn’t really recognize her when he came back. That odd presence the Elves who returned from Mandos had and all the changes and memories and disturbing looks… What she read in the diaries in the north… it was true after all, he didn’t exaggerate… In the Gardens of Lórien, all the dead Elves… And on Taniquetil… And the constructions in the north… And the bizarre trees and horses in the forest, if that´s what they were…

Her eyes snapped up, terrified. She felt an urge to look around herself, make sure nobody else was present. Nolwírë stared into the darkness and listened for several horrible seconds, but she could only hear her own heart beating in her chest. She had to do something, tell someone. But first she needed to get out of here before it was too late.


CHAPTER 9 FINAL NOTES
Another story that was almost doomed to spend an eternity on my hardrive...

Nolwírë means “wisdom/secret lore” and “desire”.
Arcalimë means “noble” and “bright”.
(I have no idea where I got these from, probably realelvish.net)


CHAPTER 10 TITLE
Finally, safe


CHAPTER 10 INITIAL NOTES
AU where Melkor is the only good Vala.


CHAPTER 10
“Thank Eru, we reached these lands at last,” Fëanáro spoke and his voice quivered, “we had to walk all the way across the frozen north-“

“You survived that?” Melkor was shocked and tried to steady Fëanáro, who was now leaning on the wall for support. He looked once again at the host of withered elves behind him, temporarily encamped by the foot of the mountains.

“…What happened?”

The Noldo looked up, desperation and pain etched in his face.

“As you predicted, but we had no time. The jewels…,” he took a deep breath, “then my father… we tried to run, but the Teleri attacked us…” Fëanáro shut his eyes and nearly stumbled.

“Alright,” Melkor said, deciding there would be time for explanations later, “quickly, we have to get your people inside, they´ll be safe in Angamar.”


CHAPTER 10 FINAL NOTES
Angband is Angamando in Quenya and it means “iron prison”.
Here, Angamar would mean “iron home”.

Someone please please pleeeeeese write this. Like an actual fic with 20+ chapters and plot and character development. I want an AU where Melkor is the only good Vala. I just don’t have the motivation to write it.


CHAPTER 11 TITLE
Flowers


CHAPTER 11 INITIAL NOTES
They say that flowers sprang from the ground as Fingolfin walked into Middle-earth.

Tolkien says: “But as the host of Fingolfin marched into Mithrim the Sun rose flaming in the West; and Fingolfin unfurled his blue and silver banners, and blew his horns, and flowers sprang beneath his marching feet, and the ages of the stars were ended.“ (Of the Return of the Noldor)


CHAPTER 11
“God fucking damn it!” Fingolfin cursed as he suddenly plummeted ungracefully to the ground, face first, hitting it with a loud thump.

“Fuck my life…,” he breathed out weakly into the grass, hoping no one would hear him. But he was quickly overcome with rage again and sat up and with a blazing fire in his eyes he looked at his feet. Despairing, he saw what he already knew would be there; green sprouts and leaves and blossoms of different shades, all of that was assaulting his feet. He fumed and started to tear the plants off, almost frantically grabbing the flowers and trying to sever their hold on him.

“Fucking rubbish…,” he grumbled as the pulled at some shoots, but to little avail, “why the fuck did I deserve this…” He managed to snap one shoot it half, but that disrupted his balance and he ended up back with his face in the dirt.

“Fuck this! Damn it!” he shouted at last and with an angry growl that would surely send even the Great spider running for her life, he instead struggled out of his boots. It took him a while before he calmed down, and his people dutifully walked by and thankfully avoided stepping on their king. Fingon appeared then and considered his father, wallowing in dirt and with absolutely no shoes on. Fingolfin looked up and sighed dramatically.

“This is the end. Go on without me, son. Carry on my legacy.”

“Father, can you get up?” Fingon asked, his face scrunching in embarrassment, “uhm… we should keep marching...”

Fingolfin sighed again and, pulling out a knife, he set off to cut the flowers and sprigs, slashing them without mercy. He had known he would suffer if he chose the path to Middle-earth, if he chose to go north, but not like this. Finally, he pulled the boots back on and stood up, looked around and gave his son a nod.

The march continued with Fingolfin. It didn’t last very long. After several minutes, he tripped again, landing with his face in the grass and with his feet bound together by some sturdy plant life. Fingon stopped and looked down at him helplessly and his father looked back, devoid of any will to life. He had thought the Helcaraxë was the worst thing that would ever happen to him, but he had been wrong.


CHAPTER 11 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]



CHAPTER 12 TITLE
Try as you might…


CHAPTER 12 INITIAL NOTES
It´s not easy being Galadriel, having a foresight and a willful daughter who doesn’t have it. Galadriel is a matchmaker but Celebrían doesn’t play along.

OR
Celebrían gents it on / tries to get it on with nearly everyone, except for Elrond. I would pair her with someone else, but no one else remains. OK, there´s still Lindir, but I couldn’t think of anything.

I really don’t understand how Elrond and Celebrían could meet for the first time only in the middle of the Second Age. They are nobility. They are related. They are two of Tolkien´s few remaining characters! Either she is younger than I thought or they both have been isolating themselves or have been busy with something. Or this falls under the "elven perception of time" and they think it´s normal not to see people for centuries. Or it´s just Tolkien preferring this type of romantic story. Yeah, that´s probably it.


CHAPTER 12
Galadriel: Hey don’t you want to go to Mithlond with us? My cousin Elrond wrote me that-
Celebrían: No, thanx, I don’t really want to see Círdan again this soon…
Galadriel: Understandable, but…
Celebrían: Actually, I think I am going to Greenwood, to spend some time with Oropher.
Galadriel: !!
……

Galadriel: I suppose you don’t want to join us and travel to Mithlond.
Celebrían: You know, I might. Did you know that Gil-galad…
Galadriel: No.
……

Celebrían: We met on the beach. He had such a gorgeous voice and played his harp for me!... Poor guy, said he lost all six brothers in the last war…
Celebrían: Mom? You OK?
Galadriel.exe stopped working
……

(1350 S.A., when they left Eregion “because of Annatar”)
Galadriel: Pack your things dear, we are leaving Ost-in-Edhil, and right now.
Celebrían: What? But what about Celebrimbor…?
Galadriel: Now, please. It´s a matter of life and death.
Celebrían: ??
……

Galadriel: So, we are expecting a royal visit soon, Gil-galad, Elrond… it should be fun.
Celebrían: But I am leaving with Gildor tomorrow. He wanted to show me the wilderness outside Lindórinand.
Galadriel: God not him, I know Finrod liked him, but…
……

Galadriel: Back already? Oh, what a shame…
Celebrían: She just took of!
Galadriel: Who?
Celebrían: Mithrellas. Just vanished. WTF. She seemed so cool… I would visit Nimrodel again… but she literally lives in a river.
……

Celeborn: It would be really nice if we all went to Mithlond, as a family, you know?
Celebrían: Actually, Thranduil invited me to a party so.
Galadriel: OMFG
Celeborn: I tried, now it´s your turn.
……

Celebrían: Who did you say was back? Glorfindel? The one who killed the balrog? Hm…
Galadriel: !! Please Eru give me strength…
……

(1701 S.A., when they left for Imladris “to search for Celeborn”)
Galadriel: Their names are Haldir, Rúmil and Orophin, they have just joined the marchwardens. Why?
Celebrían: Looking good, especially the one on the left.
Galadriel: Hey, you remember how I said we were going to stay in Lindórinand until the war in the west calmed down?
Celebrían: Yeah...?
Galadriel: Change of plans, we are going to Imladris. To look for Celeborn.
Celebrían: Look for dad? What about your agreement?
Galadriel: I just really have to go to Imladris.
Celebrían: sighs. Fine.
……

Celebrían: I was wrong, traveling to Imladris was worth it. I mean, look at that elf over there, I´m gonna say hello.
Celebrían: Hi, my name is Celebrían.
Elf: I am Erestor. Did you have a pleasant journey?
Galadriel: ARGDRRDHH!!!
Galadriel.exe exploded


CHAPTER 12 FINAL NOTES
I almost wanted to tag this with: Celebrían/Círdan, Celebrían/Oropher, Celebrían/Gil-galad, Celebrían/Maglor, Celebrían/Celebrimbor, Celebrían/Gildor, Celebrían/Mithrellas, Celebrían/Nimrodel, Celebrían/Thranduil, Celebrían/Glorfindel, Celebrían/Haldir, Celebrían/Erestor … but it looked like a harem :D


CHAPTER 13 TITLE
Blazing light


CHAPTER 13 INITIAL NOTES
Fëanor used to wear the Silmarils during feasts for others to admire.

Tolkien says: „But these he was not suffered to approach; for though at great feasts Fëanor would wear them, blazing on his brow, at other times they were guarded close, locked in the deep chambers of his hoard in Tirion.“ (The Silmarillion, Of the Silmarils and the Unrest of the Noldor)

Also, according to Tolkien Fëanor had a hoard :D :D Like a dragon?? Or was he a hoarder???


CHAPTER 13
Fëanor prepared himself for the conversation and smiled brightly, perhaps with too much effort and too many teeth, as she walked into the dining room.

“Sorry, I´m late, there was a-,” Nerdanel stopped at once and her face now reflected both her annoyance and the Light of Valinor. Before her, around the dining table, her sons and husband were sitting, and all the plates, bowls and pots were already laid on the table, but not much actual dining was happening.

“We´ve talked about this, Fëanor,” she sighed.

“I have no idea what you mean,” he replied, feigning innocence, and took a sip of his wine. Nerdanel raised one eyebrow but had to shield her eyes from the direct light and only then she sat down at the table.

“How do you expect us to function, honey?” she asked, fumbling blindly for a dish, “they´re all squinting.” She pointed in the direction of their children who were definitely not worrying about their eyesight.

“They always look like that,” Fëanor said in a placatory tone, waving his hand to dispel her concern, and then smiled charmingly, hoping to win her over with the food if not with himself.

“Would you like some soup, love? We have leek soup.”

“I would actually like to see into my dinner plate,” she retorted. Fëanor grimaced. He gave a weak nudge to the green beans on his plate. The Light of Valinor wasn’t that bright…

“Seriously, dear, good job,” Nerdanel said, smiling kindly, “with the light… and the crystals… You look really pretty too. But can you take them down now?”

“Very well,” he said, rolling his eyes and giving a dramatic sigh. Then he made a great show of taking his circlet off. He held it in both hands, turning it over and watching the Silmarils blazing fiercely right into his face. He couldn’t help but squint just a little.


CHAPTER 13 FINAL NOTES
Can´t believe I´ve last updated this collection a year ago! :(
And almost can´t believe I´ve written this fic in August 2017...


CHAPTER 14 TITLE
Shadowfax


CHAPTER 14 INITIAL NOTES
What Hasufel and Arod thought when riding through Rohan, reuniting with their king, Shadowfax.

Tolkien says:
‘No,’ said Legolas. ‘I heard them clearly. But for the darkness and our own fear I should have guessed that they were beasts wild with some sudden gladness. They spoke as horses will when they meet a friend that they have long missed.’
….
‘There are three,’ said Legolas, gazing out over the plain. ‘See how they run! There is Hasufel, and there is my friend Arod beside him! But there is another that strides ahead: a very great horse. I have not seen his like before.’
….
Soon the other horses came up and stood quietly by, as if awaiting orders.
(The Lord of the Rings, The Two Towers, The White Rider)


CHAPTER 14
Hasufel was riding fast, fleeing into the dark night, trying to catch up with Arod, but then, after a moment, he suddenly spied something bright in the distance. They both slowed down, seeing it, and then it was certain that it was another horse! They run nearer and when the realisation came Arod began sprinting towards him while Hasufel just stood in utter astonishment.

“Shadowfax! It´s Shadowfax!” Arod cried.

“Lord Shadowfax!” Hasufel joined him after he came to his senses. They ran towards the white horse, stopping a few paces before him, a sign of respect. They dutifully waited for him to speak first, but in the end the joy and shock proved to be too much.

“Lord Shadowfax! Lord Shadowfax! It´s me Hasufel!” said Hasufel excitedly and almost (but he caught himself before he could) nudged his lord´s neck.

“And Arod, my lord!” Arod was also overcome with emotions. Lord Shadowfax was silent and looked at them with his steady bright eyes, measuring them both.

“It´s so good to see you again, sire Shadowfax!” Hasufel exclaimed, unable to bear the tension, “we are here to serve you, we will follow you anywhere! Where are we going?!”

“Yes, we will!” Arod agreed, “we thought we might never see you again! This is a miracle!!”

“What have you been up to, my Lord?!” Hasufel inquired, “some genius plan, no doubt!” The horse king was quiet.

“Come along,” he bid them eventually and lightly trotted towards the edge of the forest. The two obediently followed. The cries of “Shadowfax! Shadowfax!” and “Lord Shadowfax!” echoed long over the lands of Rohan.


CHAPTER 14 FINAL NOTES
Shadowfax is totally their king!
Also, Legolas calls Arod his friend!!! That is so wholesome and adorable…
This nonsense was born from approximately two sentences in The Two Towers :)
I have written this 3 years ago and OMFG, that seems like an impossible reach into the past…



CHAPTER 15 TITLE
Doom (what happened with Isildur and the Ring)


CHAPTER 15 INITIAL NOTES
Elrond and Círdan totally did not kill Isildur.

This is a reply to all the comments about why Elrond and Círdan didn’t just throw Isildur into the fucking Mount Doom.

I was thinking of Isildur keeping the One Ring and Elrond and Círdan being there and that they were:
a) the best choice
-Wouldn’t turn on Isildur, their ally, try to kill him and destroy the ring with him.
-I think if you tried that the ring would likely gain power over you.
-Like this Tokien can continue his story :D
b) the worst choice
-They didn’t try to stop Isildur.
-I just don’t consider Círdan or Elrond the type of a person to suddenly turn on an ally, be this pragmatic.
-What would this early destruction mean for the future of Middle-earth? Many lives would be spared from their future death. The other rings would lose their power. Isildur´s son would still become the king. But who would rule in Gondor later on? Would the Hobbits still migrate over the Misty Mountains? What about Saruman? The darkening of Greenwood the Great?
c) the only option Tolkien had left
-Seriously, what other named elven characters were there? Maybe Celeborn, Galadriel or Glorfindel, but Tolkien doesn’t say.

Then I was thinking of what other characters would do…
-I think Galadriel would react the same. I´m not sure if she could resist the ring at this point in time if she tried to get rid of Isildur.
-The Fëanorians would try to stop or kill Isildur and destroy the ring, but it would gain power over them.
-Fëanor would take one look at the Ring and be like, “what? Should I want this trinket or something?” He would scoff and roll his eyes and say, “my five year old son could make a better one. Hell, even Fingolfin could make a better one.”
-And Finrod would say, “should this compensate the amount of jewellery people have taken from me?”

That said, let´s have fun because I hate Isildur.

CHAPTER 15
Glorfindel looked up once more. The sky was shielded by heavy grey clouds and not a single ray of sunlight could pass through the barrier. Ash was settling on the ground and torrents of lava still poured out of the ruins and the air was still impossibly hot. The captain left, adding several names to the total count of lives taken by the destruction, and Glorfindel walked back to the headquarters of their camp, or the remains of it, suddenly realising that there was an information missing.

“Where is Isildur anyway?” he asked the only two elves that were there.

“Is no more,” Elrond replied in a voice he might use to tell someone they were all out of blueberries for breakfast.

“I thought so,” he said curtly, “but do you know how he died?”

“He leaped into the fires, down into the Mountain,” Círdan told him from the other side of the tent.

“W-what?” Glorfindel exclaimed, “why?!”

Elrond stepped closer to him, an expression of pity on his face.

“This isn’t easy to say, Glorfindel, alas I have to tell you the grave news,” he said, “Isildur was driven to do so under the influence of the One Ring. After Sauron fell… Isildur took the ring off his hand and decided to keep it for himself. We managed to convince him to follow us up the cliff and into the Orodruin.”

“What a horrendous fate,” Glorfindel gasped, running a hand over his face and then through his ash-matted hair.
“A misfortune, yes,” Elrond agreed, even if he didn’t feel a great amount to regret. Like hell Isildur was going to keep the One Ring and walk away. They did not plan all this and lose Gil-galad, Elendil, Anárion and all the others for a half-won war. And to let Sauron´s ring or the Maia himself endure would be a grave mistake. Isildur may have been from the House of Elros, but Elrond knew his older brother. He would have probably smacked Isildur´s head, calling him a “stupid boy”, and then demanded he threw the ring down into the magma. He would have ensured the evil bling´s demise.

“You say his actions were directed by the One Ring,” Glorfindel pointed out, “what do you mean by that?”

“I suspect the Ring must have been speaking to him, muddling his mind, and Isildur couldn’t handle it,” Elrond replied, “the Ring made him suffer and he simply wanted it to end.”

Círdan nodded and spoke, “only a handful of people would be able to resist the One Ring and actually proceed to destroy it of their own will. Like this he didn’t have to, he wasn’t thinking, it was an impulse brought on by anguish.”

“Maybe, in a very special way, he had more courage than the rest of us,” Elrond added sagely.
“Exactly what I think,” Círdan said, nodding, but Glorfindel was shaking his head incredulously.

“He shall be remembered as a hero,” he said, thinking that Isildur´s actions caused the final destruction of Sauron and his evil realm and that he saved them all, ending the war that has been going on for millennia.

…

…some time ago…

…

“You must throw the Ring into the fire, Isildur,” Elrond said.

“I´ll take it as an inheritance,” Isildur retorted, looking down at the piece of jewellery resting innocently on the palm on his hand, “to commemorate our victory in this war, the defeat of the Deceiver who destroyed Númenor, and to honour my father´s and brother´s lives.”

“You shouldn’t take it as your inheritance,” Elrond said, shaking his head adamantly, ”can you not see how dangerous it is? Whomever you shall pass it down to will only be doomed to more suffering.”

“It is Sauron´s finest weapon,” Círdan spoke, ”the Ring was crafted with evil powers by the Maia himself and it obeys only him. It is forever tainted by him. It will do your family no good.”

“We shall see,” he replied, “I do not think so… And Sauron is dead now, even if the ring was made by him, it doesn’t have a master anymore, and as you said, the finest weapon… It will serve well as a compensation for all the ruin and death he caused us.”

“No, it won´t,” Elrond´s voice grew harsher, “it will turn against you, and Sauron is not dead, we have only defeated him to the time being. The ring is his.”

“It is mine now,” Isildur barked, his eyes glowing in the reflection of the fire below, and he closed his hand, “I cut if off his finger. I shall keep it.” He started to walk away, but couldn’t progress as Círdan stepped into his path.

“Move aside,” he said, but Círdan shook his head lightly, “move aside, I´m leaving this damned place.”

“No,” the elf replied, putting a hand on the hilt of his sword. Isildur´s eyes narrowed and he glanced from one to the other.
“Get rid of the Ring once at for all,” Elrond joined Círdan, “and you can walk out of here safely, become the king and return to your family, Isildur. See the future.” Isildur snarled and muttered something and then put the ring into his pocket so he could draw his sword.

“Do you honestly think you can stand against us?” Círdan asked, like the smug badass he was.


CHAPTER 15 FINAL NOTES
Originally almost finished in October ´17…
I hope you liked it!!!



CHAPTER 16 TITLE
A vision


CHAPTER 16 INITIAL NOTES
Galadriel has a vision and immediately decides to wake up her daughter and play matchmaker.


CHAPTER 16
“Wake up,” Galadriel hissed and with a hand on her shoulder she tried to shake her awake, “Celebrían, wake up!”
Celebrían grumbled and reluctantly opened one eye.
“What the-? What the hell, mom?” she said groggily. Galadriel gave her shoulder another resolute shake.
“I am glad that you are finally here. You sleep like an orc, dear,” she said. Celebrían made a face and an attempt to go back to sleep, dragging the blanket over her head, but her mother was quicker.
“No, no, no! You have to get up!” she exclaimed and sounded very excited.
“Leave me alone, I want to sleep…!” Celebrían replied, pushing her mother´s nagging hand away.
“No time,” Galadriel declared and with a swift motion, she pulled the blanked off completely and threw it on the floor.
“The fuck?!” Celebrían cried out, enraged. She crawled across the bed to snatch it back and then glared daggers up at her, “what the fuck is wrong with you, mom?!”
“Absolutely nothing, dearest,” Galadriel replied calmly, “but time is of the essence here, for you see; I had a vision.” Celebrían rolled her eyes, unimpressed, and sighed.

“Oh fuck, not again…”

“Yes, again,” Galadriel agreed, nodding proudly, “and this one concerns you directly, so get up, sweetpie, you have an important mission ahead of you.”

“A mission?” Celebrían sounded dubious and exasperated, “go back to First Age, mom…”

“Come on! It´ll be a fun mission!” Galadriel exclaimed, trying to convince her daughter, “you´ll see. I haven’t even told you what it is about!”

Celebrían gave her a side look, narrowing her eyes. She was curious now, she had to admit.

“What is it about?” she asked with suspicion.

“You will find out when you come downstairs,” Galadriel replied with a smile.

“Oh for fuck-… forget it,” Celebrían grumbled and instead disappeared under her blanket. This was not worth leaving her bedroom, she thought.

“Alright,” her mother was quick to change the strategy, “I will tell you now.”

After a while of listening Celebrían´s face was dark, she did not look amused at all. And she had been woken up because of this?! Honestly, maybe she would be better off living as a hermit like Nimrodel.

“So… you want me to travel across the mountains, hike into some forgotten valley, and get married to the person who runs the place. Right.”

“Your words, not mine,” Galadriel calmly replied.

“If you leave right now, I´ll pretend this conversation never happened,” Celebrían said, deadpan and serious. But Galadriel seemed unconcerned and only smiled.

“Now don’t be so dismissive, dear! Like I´ve said, it can turn out so great, you both looked so happy in my vision and your children were so cute-”

“Or I will tell dad,” Celebrían, still glaring, added in a deadly voice.


CHAPTER 16 FINAL NOTES
No seriously, how the fuck did Celebrían and Elrond meet and more importantly when????? Tolkien, you hear me??!! Did Tolkien just put them together because they were the only ones left at the end of the Second Age? Probably.
(Completed 3 year ago, in June ´17, which is unbelievable to me…)
I hope you liked whatever this was :D


CHAPTER 17 TITLE
In the halls of the forest kingdom


CHAPTER 17 INITIAL NOTES
Tyelcormo and Lúthien before Thingol´s judgment.

How would Thingol react to Lúthien bringing Celegorm back home instead of Beren? And how would Celegorm?


CHAPTER 17
“You have broken the sacred law that I have set on my land. You and your kin have been forbidden from entering the Kingdom of Doriath and such an offence can only be punished by your death. You have crossed the borders of the forest and you will find your end here, be sure about that, son of Fëanor.”

As king Thingol spoke whispers rose through the hall, surprised intakes of breath and chattering kept in low voices. The queen Melian then averted her eyes and looked to her husband instead, calling to his attention. They looked at each other for a long time and Tyelcormo could sense with an anticipation that the mood was changing. Surely, he will not kill me, he chuckled in his mind, nervously clinging to that thought.

“I shall demand one thing from you, Celegorm, son of Fëanor,” the king spoke again at last, “the jewels that adorns the Dark Lord´s crown. Bring one to me and Lúthien will be yours to marry.”

Tyelcormo could feel his jaw dropping at those incredible words. He willed himself to some manner of composure and dignity and waited for Thingol to say more, but the king was silent and as unmoving as a piece of old tree.

“Are you kidding me?!” the words sprang out of Tyelcormo´s mouth, he could not hold them in any longer, “you would send me – a son of Fëanor – on a mad quest to take a Silmaril? Are you actually out of your mind?! I have sworn an oath graver than what you could ever imagine, to reclaim the Silmarils and to pursue anyone who would withhold them from me or my family! And now you have the audacity to send me to bring the jewels out of Angband? And to you?!” He gestured wildly, his hands slicing the air before him.

“Honestly who do you think you are…,” Tyelcormo could not seem to stop, but in the end he managed, his voice trailing off as he shook his head in disbelief.

While he was speaking, king Thingol´s face grew more and more stern, his lips tightening into a thin line, his pale eyebrows dropping lower. His eyes were set on him, blazing with nearly contained fury. Now queen Melian leaned over a whispered something to him. And at her words he began to relent. He sighed and looked at her and the two exchanged another few silent sentences. Tyelcormo glanced to the left, at Lúthien, to see what she was making out of all of this madness. She was standing motionless, her head held high and proud, as ever when she encountered problems. But she turned her gaze to him, sensing his inquiry, and her eyes were steady, telling him to be the same.


CHAPTER 17 FINAL NOTES
(Another thing excavated from my hard drive. According to our experts it dates back to September 2017.)
I hope you had fun reading this!



CHAPTER 18 TITLE
The dangers of seeing


CHAPTER 18 INITIAL NOTES
Erestor secretly looks into the Mirror of Galadriel.


CHAPTER 18
Keep away! Do not enter without permission!

Erestor looked at the sign for a while and swayed on his toes. Surely, this was only a mandatory declaration and nothing wrong awaited him there. This was Lothlórien after all, the realm of peace and bliss. It was probably just a silly sign to keep the locals away, especially the children.
And so Erestor ventured into the secret glade, taking the first step off the stairs and instead meeting grass under his feet. Oh, this felt odd. He was after all not supposed to be here, this was a place even more blessed than the average parts of Lothlórien and, Erestor mused, it could be considered Lady Galadriel´s personal office. He wouldn’t like others coming unannounced and without his leave to his own office and just stroll about the room… Damned it, if stupid Orophin wouldn’t have dared him…! Erestor fumed, but resumed his walk.
Lady Galadriel called it her Mirror but in all honesty it looked more like a bath intended for stray birds to come and have a sip. Nevertheless the architecture was quite stunning, reminiscent of the late Noldorin style of Tirion. Anyway… Erestor took another step, because really what other choice did he have now? He was already halfway through the glade… almost standing before the Mirror and he would most likely spend only a second looking in it. What bad could it do? He also wasn´t sure if he would be able to see anything more than the surface of the water and his own face reflected in it. He wasn´t one of those who possessed the gift of foresight, there wasn’t even a single instance of a dream or premonition that he could boast about.
With sudden anger he remembered his annoying cousin again! It seemed like he got prophetic dreams every time he went to sleep! Stupid Orophin! Now it was Erestor´s turn and he would be damned if it didn’t work tonight, this was after all the Mirror crafted by Lady Galadriel, specifically so that it would guide people. This damned mirror better work, he thought. There must be something that would enable even him to see. He would show Orophin! He would receive an even better vision than those Orophin spoke of, even if it meant watching his own death. Such a revelation would definitely beat everything Orophin has ever gotten.
When Erestor stood right in front of the Mirror, it reminded him even more of a birdbath. Was he certain this was the right place? Erestor looked around, but then came back to gaze at his own reflection…
Alright, show me what you can do, he guided his thoughts… Nothing happened for a while, which made him feel exasperated, but then the surface began to change…
Hm… Imladris, with its green hills that come up to form the mountains…
Sure, that was him with his cat, Lord Squabbles… Erestor was packing for this trip… Nice shirt folding skills you have there, counsellor… But he already knew that. Show me something new, mirror, he almost said, something interesting…
The mountains, the journey… Glorfindel squeaking when the kids put a spider on his shoulder… Then Lothlórien and probably all the golden trees in the world… Lord Celeborn and Lady Galadriel. Boring, boring, we can skip that, Erestor commanded…
And now he saw himself walking among the golden trees… Oh, alright, that seemed more interesting… And he was not alone, someone was standing there… oh, but no, it was Glorfindel… Skip this, mirror, skip it, he thought…
And now Glorfindel was kissing him! Erestor practically froze in horror and wanted to shout at his other self. No, what the hell are you doing, Erestor?! Stop it! Stop! Skip, skip! Skip! But unfortunately the inappropriate act went on and became even more improper, so much that Erestor´s eyes nearly burned in his skull. He tried with all his will to stop it until finally he came back to reality. His hands were clutching the edge of the Mirror and the water was alive with waves.
Erestor blinked a few times and sighed in relief. Thank Eru it was over... Bad, bad idea. Stealing his way to the glade and looking into the Mirror of Galadriel was possibly the worst thing he has ever done. No, what he had just witnessed held that title… But that has never actually happened! Erestor reprimanded himself. And it never will! He nodded resolutely. He would never, ever, in the whole existence of Arda, abase himself by doing such things to Glorfindel or allow him to touch him like that!
Though, Erestor had to admit, Glorfindel wasn’t exactly aesthetically displeasing, theoretically speaking... No! Where did that thought even come from? Erestor shook his head, swatting at such ideas. Glorfindel was dreadfully ugly. Yes, that´s the way it was.
He turned away from the Mirror and then left the secret glade, glaring at the warning sign near the stairs. Stupid Orophin could be damned, it was all rubbish anyway!


CHAPTER 18 FINAL NOTES
And yeah, that´s Galadriel´s doing, against unwanted visitors who have no business using her mirror 😀 Is it the future?? 😮
Also, I CAN´T BELIEVE I had to delete tags, because ao3 said I had too many already!!!!! WTF?!!



CHAPTER 19 TITLE
A message for Elros


CHAPTER 19 INITIAL NOTES
Arwen is going to die one day and what does that mean? Exactly, she´s going to meet Elros in the Mortal afterlife! Which makes her kind of a medium for any messages Elrond might want to pass to his brother.


CHAPTER 19
“Next, tell Elros that I still remember what happened during the summer feast on Balar and he should reflect on that,” Elrond said with a stern expression and a nod.
“Dad, isn’t it quite enough?” Arwen asked and showed him the notebook, another page almost completely filled with notes. They already had five pages full of Elrond´s weird messages and random comments about her uncle that were apparently “very important, Arwen, write that down”. She sighed and gave her father a thoroughly annoyed look. She wished Estel was here, then he could write all this nonsense down, or help her at least.
“I think this is more than enough,” she said, closing the notebook and tapping on the cover.
“No, no, you have to write it down, Arwen, it´s important,” he replied and looked at her expectantly until she groaned and opened it again and actually wrote the last thing on the paper.
“On Balar, was it?”
“Yes, it was on Balar. He´ll know what I mean,” Elrond said and poured them both another glass of wine.
“If you say so…,” she mumbled.
“Hm… what number are we at, Arwen?”
“Two hundred and sixty two,” she said and sighed.
“Hm…”
“Dad, again, why is this so damn necessary? Does he really have to know that,” Arwen said and searched in the notes, “you now prefer white tea over green tea or… that the robe he wore at his coronation ceremony looked ridiculous?”
“Yes!” Elrond exclaimed, “it was a hideous thing, Arwen, I am glad you´ve never seen it, darling, it was evil, I swear.” She raised an eyebrow, but unfortunately her father mirrored the look.
“Yes, it´s very important,” he repeated, “I wanted to tell Elros later. I was holding onto that information but he died before I had a chance to use it.” He shrugged apologetically.
“Alright,” she said, but shook her head. Truly, Estel should be here, she thought, they were going to have to deal with this together, after all.
“Also tell him that I know it was him who stole those boots from me when we were fifteen,” Elrond said, “so he should reflect on that.” Arwen made another note.
“Oh, and I just recalled, tell Elros that…”
Arwen rolled her eyes, turned the page and had another drink. On second thought, she downed the entire glass. This was going to be a long day.


CHAPTER 19 FINAL NOTES
Estel is one of Aragorn´s many names and Arwen is reconsidering the choice 😀



CHAPTER 20 TITLE
Elf rider


CHAPTER 20 INITIAL NOTES
Elrohir explains his name.


CHAPTER 20
“So your name is Elrohir, right?” Éomer said over his seventh cup of wine, looking quite inquisitive and amused, “you don’t seem like a lost Rohir to me.”
Elrohir laughed and Éomer joined him, for no more a reason than being drunk.
“I´m afraid I am not one of the Rohirrim,” Elrohir replied, “my name just means elf rider in my language.”
“Interesting…,” Éomer said slowly, but half the information probably went over his head.
“And it also refers to my ancestry,” Elrohir said and smirked, “my mortal ancestry, because Elrohir is in the Sindarin dialect of the people of Gondor.”
“You have ancestors in Gondor?” Éomer asked, looking surprised and impressed.
“Oh, no!” Elrohir exclaimed, laughing, “but I have some mortal ancestors.”
Now a look of utter confusion spread over Éomer´s face.
“What…? How is that possible? Wait… Wait, I thought you were an elf! Sorry, man!” He clapped him on the back and laughed, spilling half of his drink on the table and the floor, nearly missing Elrohir, which made him chuckle.
“You thought right, I am an elf,” he said.
Éomer frowned and his eyes suddenly looked at him sharply, with suspicion, so Elrohir began to explain, even though he knew it was probably pointless now.
“I might be too drunk for this,” Éomer mumbled into his wine after a few minutes, “or not enough.”


CHAPTER 20 FINAL NOTES
Elrohir´s name translates as “elf rider”, but the “rohir” part of it is not pure Sindarin, it´s the dialect they spoke in Gondor.
Try to explain the family trees and etymologies to people who had not been touched by The Silmarillion.


CHAPTER 21 TITLE
The book of famous quotations


CHAPTER 21 INITIAL NOTES
Elladan and Elrohir find an interesting book full of quotes or conversations that absolutely undeniably happened.


CHAPTER 21
Tiny specs of dust were visible in the golden rays that came from the huge tall windows on the right. A sudden bray of laughter carried itself over the library, disrupting that afternoon´s lazy atmosphere.
Elladan was startled from his reading, but sighed and got back to it after a few seconds. Only to hear quick footsteps, far too familiar, so he feared he wasn´t gonna have a peace of mind any time soon.
His brother dropped on the chair opposite him. And then hastily pushed a white-grey book across the table, while looking rather excited. Elladan frowned and looked at him in question.
“You won’t believe what I have just found,” Elrohir said in a hushed and excited voice.
“What? What is it?”
“A book of quotes,” Elrohir replied, tapping the cover of the book, “everyone´s in there, famous historical figures, people we know of course. And it´s fucking hilarious.”
“What?” Elladan asked and grinned, taking the book in his hand and opening it. Now that could be interesting.
“Famous quotations throughout the history of the Eldar,” he read out loud what stood on the front page. He searched for the author but couldn´t find it. It only said that the book had been published in Mithlond like two centuries ago.
“Who wrote this book?” he asked, “it looks rather dubious, Elrohir.”
“Oh, come on,” his brother replied and rolled his eyes, “does it matter? It´s hilarious, I´ve already skimmed through it. Just open it and read something!” He motioned for Elladan to go on and Elladan, kind of curious, found a page that promised to be interesting.
“Babies are cute. Have many.” – Fëanor, to anyone who would listen
“Fuck all of you.” – Fëanor, to anyone, at any time
“If it´s shiny, it´s worth it.” – Fëanor, to anyone with ears
“Everything not shiny is a complete rubbish.” – Fëanor, again, to anyone alive or dead
Elladan laughed at all of these and Elrohir couldn´t help but chuckle as well. Obviously, they were fake quotes, but he found them kind of funny.
“Peace out, motherfuckers!” – Finarfin, to the remaining host, shortly after witnessing the Doom of Mandos
Elladan could hear his brother laugh and even he couldn´t help but snort at how ridiculous it was.
“I wish I had children. Lemme just steal these two.” – Maglor, more to himself than to anybody else, after the Third Kinslaying
“Imagine showing this to dad!” Elladan laughed.
“I have stopped being a babysitter a long time ago, not going back.” – Maedhros, to his brother Maglor, after noticing some unknown children by his side
Elladan snorted, trying to suppress his laughter and Elrohir outright laughed again.
“Shhhh!” a loud shush sounded from the depths of the library.
They giggled in response and then quickly tried to calm down and stay still. It wouldn´t be hard to get thrown out of the hall and possibly be banned from entering the library for some time. Elladan didn´t want to risk that.
“This book is insane…,” he whispered as he leaned across the table, “and how do you always find such things? First it was the Fëanor/Nerdanel porn book, then Glorfindel´s ´autobiography´ and now this?!” He pointed at the page, shaking his head in amusement, just as Elrohir shrugged his shoulders.
“I don’t know, Elladan,” he replied with a smile, “I guess I am just lucky. But I wanna read some more. Let´s borrow it and leave. Quotes about Fingon could be hilarious!”


CHAPTER 21 FINAL NOTES
This was just me fucking around with the Silm jokes and memes, I guess 😆


CHAPTER 22 TITLE
The breaking of the Silmarils


CHAPTER 22 INITIAL NOTES
Fëanáro breaks the Silmarils. No, not in that way.


CHAPTER 22
There was a shuttering noise followed by a sudden shout of “Damnit!” from the other room and Curufinwë´s head snapped up from his book, disturbed like a deer or a rabbit by the unexpected appearance of a predator. He turned around, glancing at the door that led to the main area of the forge, and, feeling quite timid, he considered walking over there and having a look at what was going on.
“Damnit, not again! Fuck!!!!!” His father´s voice cut through the air once more. “Eru fucking damn it! Fuck the damned bauble! And fuck you too!!!!”
With that Curufinwë heard a pristine tinkling sound of crystal or glass that soon developed into the sound of something very fragile being crushed and broken underneath heavy boots. Curufinwë winced with every crunch that got to his young ears.
“Motherfucking crystals!! Eru damnit, fuck!!” his father was shouting again and from what Curufinwë deduced, kept stomping on the floor and kicked a table or a chair several times.
While his father´s temper tantrums were sometimes dangerous, but far from uncommon, and thus not particularly fascinating to him anymore, the experiments he performed at his workstation were very much exactly that. It was a risk he would have to take. His curiosity got the better of him and Curufinwë warily approached the door, pushing it open gently and peering into the other room.
His father was standing by one of the worktables and it was obvious that he was fuming, or had been a few seconds ago, for now he was just looking at the glittering mess on the floor, nudging a bit here a bit there with the tip of his boot. The shards of the crystal on the ground twinkled, illuminated by the light that came in through the wide open windows. Those were undoubtedly one of the light-catching stones he had been trying to develop.
“Father?” he called out softly.
“Curufinwë! I did not know you were in here!” Fëanáro exclaimed as he spun around, seemingly taken aback and a bit uneasy, but after a moment of staring, he calmed down to some extent. “Did I disturb you from some work, son? I didn’t mean to.”
“No, I was just reading, it wasn’t important,” he said and waved his hand to discard the question, not wanting his father to know the truth. Then he took another moment to study the shards and crystal sand strewn over the tiles. “What happened to those gems?” he asked the obvious.
“They broke.” That was the only reply, his father´s eyes never leaving Curufinwë´s.
“It is too bad,” he said, trying to sound as innocent as possible, “clearly it is for the better, now you can make even more illustrious ones.”
Curufinwë could always read his father better than any of his brothers. His father was looking at him in a way that told him he knew he knew, but also that he understood and was grateful for the words.
“You are quite right, son,” he said at last, ”they were rubbish anyway. Prototypes, to be honest. Let us go outside instead, the weather seems to be lovely.”
“I could use a bit of fresh air,” Curufinwë replied, nodding. They headed outside, his father´s steps making crunching sounds from the remains of crystals still latched into the soles of his boots. Curufinwë tried to ignore it.


CHAPTER 22 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 23 TITLE
A moonlit dance


CHAPTER 23 INITIAL NOTES
It is the night of the full moon and some of the inhabitants of Imladris decided to dance and sing in a nearby meadow. With consequences. Two Mortals got confused.


CHAPTER 23
“…and furthermore we have to see that everything is ready for the festival next week. Thirty thousand individual flowers should suffuse. I think we could start the preparations tomorrow,” Elrond said, concluding the matter. The meeting was just coming to a close when there was a tap on the door. It opened to reveal Celebrían.
“Hey,” she said and stepped into the study and upon noticing that her husband was not alone, she added, “Melpomaen, nice to see you.”
“Mistress Celebrían,” he replied, bowing a little.
“It´s good that I found you so quickly, El,” she spoke as she crossed the room to the table where they were sitting. She was still clad in her white shift, the classic robe for the Moon-greeting ceremony, and a rather humble flower crown sat on top of her head.
Elrond rose to greet her with a kiss.
“How was the night, darling?” he asked with a smile.
“Well,” she said, giving him a very complex look, “actually, we have a problem with two Mortals. It happened again.” Elrond shook his head slightly and looked up, likely turning his thoughts to Ilúvatar and asking why.
“I know…,” Celebrían sounded sympathetic and she put her hand on his shoulder, “do you have a moment, sweetheart?”
“Well of course,” he replied, resigned to the situation, “what else can I do, right…? Where are they? Plural was it?”
“Yes, there are two of them,” Celebrían confirmed, “they´re in the old portion of the gardens, behind the orchard. I already found Tharnor and instructed him to keep them there for now.”
“Good call. Melpomaen you will surely excuse us, we´ll see each other at the council,” Elrond said, turning to his assistant.
“Absolutely, Master Elrond. Mistress Celebrían,” he replied, smiled politely and left the study just as they did.
Elrond and Celebrían walked through the long corridors of the house, somewhat darkened now, but occasionally lit by the full moon that shone in from behind the tall windows and in the open walkways that overlooked the courtyard, the gardens and the waterfalls.
“We were just dancing, singing, you know, like every time, and just like every time some Mortal thought he had the right to come out of nowhere and keep meddling in,” Celebrían said, sounding annoyed. Elrond nodded.
“Some of them are incredibly dull-witted, I know. And nosey. And before long they are babbling about how we abducted them! Or invited them here, or did something unpleasant to their souls…”
“Exactly,” she agreed as they rounded the last corner of the hallway and found themselves in the small courtyard with great tall pillars and wines weaving around them.
“Songs of power…,” she muttered, shaking her head, “must be my mother´s line… and with the children there and your ancestry, I guess it´s no surprise, but anyway, oh! It´s infuriating! And one of them is bothering Erestor!”
Elrond almost staggered.
“What? Again?! What is their problem…?! Oh save us… But of course he insisted on staying and…”
“…and keep an eye on the whole thing…,” Celebrían finished his sentence with a nod.
They walked briskly through the gardens, passing all the trees and flowers, and paying minimal attention to the glorious scenery around them that was painted in the pure silvery blue light of the moon. After the orchard they came to the northern section of the gardens where the trees were thick and close to each other, intermingled with shrubs and wildflowers, and from which two paths led to the hills and to the forest. There, a diverse group was awaiting them.
Four of those who took part in the monthly ceremony, two soldiers, and, finally, two very misplaced Mortals. Those two Men had the bearings they always had in these situations. One was subdued, dazed, his eyes having a glaze over them that caused him to only barely stand on his feet and looking half-asleep, while the other was curious and his eyes skipped from one point to the next, wide and awed, and he seemed only too ready to touch and gawk at everything and everyone.
“Stop it!” Erestor just slapped away the man´s hand as it was about to lift a corner of his flowy shift.
Oh, but they were so enchanting and so beautiful! The man thought. Hair the colour of raven´s wings and soft as silk, surely! Those big flowers in that Elf´s hair! So colourful and pretty! And the fabric the Elf was wearing was like a cloud or mist and see-through and it covered the divine body in moonlight.
“He´s been trying to touch me all night!” Erestor exclaimed and pointed at the Mortal when he saw Elrond and Celebrían approach.
“That´s true, that one´s sleazy,” Celebrían said and made a completely disgusted face in the direction of the sleaze.
And now the silver one with the huge flower crown returned and brought along another one! The Mortal mused. Oh, they were both so radiant and the silver hair shone like a waterfall or the Moon itself! But oh, the new Elf was wearing clothes that he couldn’t see-through, what a pity! But the dark-haired one by his side was still inviting him to dance and sing and spin around, to hold the Elf´s delicate hands, and he kept looking at him with his enthralling sparkly eyes and batting his lashes at him!
Elrond quickly walked over to the man and looked deep into his eyes.
“Right. You are not going to remember anything that happened tonight. Not the meadow, not the dance, not the singing, not the forest, not this place and the way you came here, you are going to forget anyone that you saw here, me, her, him, everyone. You have gotten lost in the forest because it was dark and you were tired and then you fell asleep, so if you, by any meagre change, actually recall anything concerning Elves, it was the dream. You woke up and, thankfully, found your way back home,” Elrond finished his speech and turned towards the other one. He snapped his fingers and looked into those dopey eyes, “you, the same.”
The other Mortal was still vividly seeing the figures dancing in a circle while a huge white moon hung overhead, the cascading song was still latched onto this ears, but it all disappeared suddenly now, just as it happened for his companion, who, in a second, forgot all about the beings around him and his mind was clouded by a black fog.
Elrond spent a while scrutinising both of them until he was finally sure they would not trouble his valley in the future.
“Tharnor, Baineth,” he said, regarding the two soldiers who stood to the side by the peach tree, “please lead them away. Lead them to the road and leave them there. You can sleep in late in the morning.”
“Yes, Master Elrond,” they replied in unison and each took one Mortal under an arm.
“Sleaze,” Erestor muttered and crossed his arms over his chest as the two Men were being led away. Díllothon, Aelil and Celemireth bade them goodnight soon afterwards and excused themselves, now that the matter was resolved at last, and so it was only the very elite left in the overgrown garden.
Elrond approached Erestor carefully.
“Are you feeling alright, Erestor?” he asked, studying him with a slightly worried expression.
“Yes, I´ll be fine…,” Erestor sighed, but appeared to contradict his words.
“Let´s go for some miruvor,” Celebrían suggested and smiled at him and to this Erestor absentmindedly nodded and they began to walk away.
“Mortals…,” someone´s tired voice muttered into the night.


CHAPTER 23 FINAL NOTES
This plays with the trope of “fair folk” and how they usually dance, sing and charm some poor passing Mortals. Also, Poor Erestor 😢
Also, I forgot what the OC´s names meant, so.


CHAPTER 24 TITLE
Your relationship status is…?


CHAPTER 24 INITIAL NOTES
The adventures of Fëanáro and not his bride Nerdanel.

So apparently the word “indis” means bride or wife in Quenya.
Do you think Fëanáro had ever called Nerdanel his bride/wife? He would have to call her “indis” and that could turn awkward very quickly.
How did he propose to her? Was he relieved that she proposed to him? How did the engagement and marriage ceremonies go? Was the word used at all?????


CHAPTER 24
“Nerdanel, dearest Nerdanel! Will you marry me? Will you become my……… ehm…”
Fëanáro´s passionate speech turned into an awkward stammer and he grimaced painfully, as if biting into something really sour. Nerdanel, sitting across from him, narrowed her eyes and peered at him from underneath her lashes with some confusion.
“Ahm…,” he mumbled. Fëanáro´s difficult moment dragged on and he kept looking anywhere but at her.
“Are you alright?” Nerdanel asked carefully and poked him on the cheek.

- <> - <> - <> -

“And there she is, this is my…,” Fëanáro said and motioned to approaching Nerdanel, but his voice trailed off into an odd sound and he looked at her warily, “ahm… em… well, this is Nerdanel! We are to be married.”
“Oh, nice to meet you, Nerdanel!” he smiled, “I am honoured to finally meet the bride-“
“No!” Fëanáro exclaimed and reached out, almost clamping his hands over the other elf´s mouth, “do not say that! She is not- no! Just no!!!”

- <> - <> - <> -

“I am your wife!” Nerdanel shouted at last. She had just enough of this stupid argument and she levelled him with a fiery gaze of her own.
There was a sharp intake of breath.
“How dare you?!” Fëanáro was so shocked his left eye was twitching.


CHAPTER 24 FINAL NOTES
I´ve written this in February ´17, so I figured, I could just post this ridiculous thing already...


CHAPTER 25 TITLE
Very old elves


CHAPTER 25 INITIAL NOTES
Fëanáro is released from the Halls of Manos and Nolofinwë is there to greet him, but something isn´t quite the same…


CHAPTER 25
“And you have a beard now, I see?” Fëanáro asked and could not stop laughing as he inspected his younger brother. He was almost doubled over, it was one of the most hilarious things he has ever encountered.
“Yes?” Nolofinwë replied in a tone that was surprised, confused and slightly irritated, “and you seem far too amused by it, for some reason…”
“Oh, Ilúvatar, just look at yourself! You just look so different!” Fëanáro told him, still laughing. He was spellbound, his eyes couldn’t leave the sight of him, but with every new second he spent looking, he erupted into a new fit of laughter and giggles.
“You would have one too, you know, if you didn’t come out of the Halls just yesterday,” Nolofinwë remarked dryly after a long moment, folding his arms across his chest.
“I think I might even like you now that your stupid face is gone,” Fëanáro said, smirking. Nolofinwë rolled his eyes and, with a deep sigh, he turned around and began to walk away.
“Oh, come on, don’t be like that!” his brother exclaimed, striding to catch up with him.


CHAPTER 25 FINAL NOTES
Elves who are old enough can grow a beard. Fëanáro took just about an eternity to be let out of the Halls of Mandos and, presumably, he was resurrected into his original body.


CHAPTER 26 TITLE
The fair brother


CHAPTER 26 INITIAL NOTES
Celegorm the Fair. What was Tyelcormo´s hair colour??

I know most people think his hair was blond/golden. 🤨 🤨
Nice colour, yeah, but… I also like the idea of his hair being silver. Also, black!! (I just know it will piss off the fanon purists 😆)
Angamando is Angband in Quenya, Melkor´s fortress.
Ungoliantë is Ungoliant in Quenya, the giant mega spider that aided Melkor in killing the Trees.


CHAPTER 26
“I am sorry, brother, but that is not really within my expertise,” Curufinwë said and scowled. Tyelco scowled back at him, very doubtful, because he knew that his brother could make some dye if he really wanted to.
“Well, we should have more hairdressers,” Tyelcormo said sternly. He was adamant to make his point, but then something else suddenly occurred to him. “What happened to all of them anyway? They were at every corner in Tirion! And now when I need one-!”
“It seems that all of them got stuck on the other side,” Carnistir replied dryly and they all looked over at him. “What? ‘Tis true…”
“Anyway…,” Macalaurë spoke, slowly turning his gaze back to Tyelcormo, “it really doesn’t look that bad, Tyelco.” He smiled gently at his younger brother.
“No, it looks fucking ridiculous,” Tyelcormo countered. There was a long moment of silence in which they all looked at or tried not to look at Tyelco and the disaster he once called his hair. His natural black showed not only on the roots, it was already a good few centimetres. Then around his ears the colour started to turn golden and from there the rest was golden blond. Considering that his hair was quite long, it looked strange at best. It looked absolutely ridiculous, atrocious, disgusting! Tyelco thought. And people have started to look at him weirdly. Like he could pass for an orc or something else that has crawled out of Angamando…
“There must be something that could help me!” he exclaimed and struck the table with his fist, “think! I cannot go on looking like this any longer!”
“Alright then,” Telufinwë said and suddenly stood up. In a span of a few seconds he walked over to his poor brother, grabbed some of his hair, pulled out his knife and swiftly cut the strand off. Tyelcormo screamed in a high pitched voice like he just saw Ungoliantë, too shocked to do anything else. They all gasped, except for Telvo, who seemed unperturbed.
“Perhaps you should just cut it,” he remarked in a levelled voice, as the mostly blond tresses fell onto the floor.


CHAPTER 26 FINAL NOTES
Maybe this could put an end to all the discussions regarding his hair colour?
Maybe he was in short supply of his favourite hair dye in those first days in Beleriand or maybe he just didn’t give a fuck anymore.
Also, there was a picture of Celegorm and Aredhel dying his hair that I´ve seen once. If anyone can help me locate it, I would appreciate it and link it here.

EDIT: OMFG this fic now has more than a 1000 hits! Which is just incredible to me. Thank you so much for reading!!! It makes me happy that people have enjoyed my writings and I hope all of you are doing fiiiiiiiine!!!!