TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
They Who Were the Greatest Among the Elves	Praisetotheunknown	2024-01-04	2024-06-02	14,284	8/?	45	61	15	1,087

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
General Audiences	Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Fëanor | Curufinwë & Lúthien Tinúviel, Finwë/Míriel Þerindë | Míriel Serindë, Finwë/Indis (Tolkien), Finwë/Indis/Míriel Þerindë | Míriel Serindë, Other Relationship Tags to Be Added, Elu Thingol | Elwë Singollo/Melian, Fëanor & Rúmil of Tirion (Tolkien)	Fëanor (Tolkien), Lúthien Tinúviel, Finwë (Tolkien), Míriel Þerindë | Míriel Serindë, Indis (Tolkien), Elu Thingol | Elwë Singollo, Melian (Tolkien), Other Character Tags to Be Added, Rúmil of Tirion (Tolkien), Manwë Súlimo, Aulë | Mahal (Tolkien), Námo | Mandos (Tolkien), Ingwë Ingweron, Ilwen (Tolkien)	Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Fix-It, Quenya Names, Everyone has a Silmarillion fix-it AU. This is mine, Note that some people still die, bullet-point fic

SUMMARY
OKAY. Time for a self-indulgent fix-it.

Finwe finds that his best friend is missing, and that his wife is pregnant. This necessitates a halt in the journey to Valinor until his son is grown, or until he has found his friend - preferably whichever comes first. Meanwhile, Elwe's wife is also pregnant, and he is in no hurry to go anywhere. It is not that great a surprise that their children meet, and form a close friendship.

 

I think it was really sad that Feanor and Luthien never met in canon, because they would have probably got along like a house on fire (were it not for circumstances) and, given the opportunity, changed everything about the First Age (in this case for the better). So they get to meet, become best friends and fix the First Age. With a bit of help.

Irregular update schedule, so do be warned - but I have the plot planned out. Also my first attempt at a bullet-point fic.

Here you go!

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
A Necessary Halt


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
Finwe notices that Elwe has disappeared, and Feanor is born.
Here goes!

If you would like to find me on Tumblr: @light-of-the-two-trees

For names, I have decided that Feanor's would be put as 'Fayanáro', which HOME 12 (The Peoples of Middle-earth) states as an archaic variant of 'Fëanáro'. I am very much open to suggestions (read: I have no idea what I'm doing), so please tell me if you have better alternatives!

(I shall eventually beg for advice on Luthien's name too, but we'll leave that for the next chapter)

Hope you enjoy!


CHAPTER 1
Finwë does not believe, when he is first told that Elwë is missing, that what he has been told is true. 


⦁ He is very reluctant to believe that something such as this might have escaped his notice. He thinks to himself, I could not have missed something like it! He is my friend — I would notice the disappearance of a friend! But after much searching through the great host, and after asking all of the gathered people if they have seen Elwë Þindicollo, it becomes clear that he is not there — that he has, indeed disappeared.


⦁ I have to wait, Finwë decides — he does not need to think overmuch about it. He knows that Elwë would wait for him forever, were their positions reversed. So he speaks with Olwë, Elwë's brother, who is of the same mind. 


⦁ 'We can't wait forever,' warns Olwë solemnly, 'but we must wait as long as we can. He is my brother, and your friend.' So Finwë orders the Tatyar to turn back towards the woods and make an encampent by them, making sure not to venture inside. Olwë says the same to the Nelyar. 


⦁ As expected, there is dissent, for there are many that wish to go on. 'It is Elwë,' Finwë's advisors (or that is what they will be, though they do not have the title yet) tell him. 'He cannot be so very lost, can he? He does not get lost so easily. He'll catch up.' But when he thinks back to the darkness of the great wood through which they have now emerged, he is not so sure. Anyone, even Oromë himself, might get lost in those woods. Or so is Finwë's opinion. But to tell the people to stop — that may well mean that they lose faith. They need a better reason than 'I've decided to wait for a friend'. It should be reason enough, he thinks, but things are not always as one wishes them to be. That is an easy lesson to learn in the world.


⦁ When he retires into his tent to rest and think, letting Míriel comb through his hair, she tells him that they must stop in any case. 'I cannot travel while I am with child.'


⦁ 'You're with child?' Finwë's eyes are wide, and his smile wider. A child! It is dangerous, yes, to have children on such a long journey. But still! A child — someone bright and young who shall live in little fear but in great hope! He thinks it is most wonderful news. He turns to embrace her. 


⦁ Míriel kisses him softly upon his lips and says, 'Tell the others. Indis knows — spread the news far and wide, and bid everyone to stop.' Her eyes flutter shut for a moment. 'The travel is already taking a toll on me. It's odd.' It is odd, Finwë realises. Míriel is a hardier woman than most take her for — not just Þerindë, content to spin and sew and broider, but also a hunter and traveller who can endure great toil even on little sustenance. 'I have been feeling very tired, of late.'


⦁ He runs his hand slowly through her hair — it is loose now, rather than braided, and flows as molten silver through his fingers. He shall comb it for her soon, as she has done for him. 'Rest,' he whispers to her. 'I'll be back soon.'


⦁ Míriel does not hear his words, for she has already fallen into deep sleep. 

***


⦁ And indeed word does spread wide, as Finwë and Indis spread it, while Míriel herself emerges from her tent seldom, preferring to while the hours away spinning and sewing with the steel needles (precious things they are, made in faraway Valinor and given to Finwë for his wife by a Power herself, for the fame of Míriel's skill has spread even to the ears of Vairë) that flash in the firelight. For it seems that a fire is always lit by her tent, where she may sit and work, and she is not often seen without her furs wrapped tightly about her. 


⦁ Houses start to be built — not so very permanent, being mere huts of clay and reed and wood, to survive only some years until Míriel's child is grown and, it is hoped, Elwë is found — but homes nonetheless, within which people might cook and work and rest and live. A large town's worth of small huts spring up over the course of the year as the People pause in their travels with rather more enthusiasm than they have expected. And at last, news is heard again that Míriel has had a child — a son. 


⦁ The birth is hard — all the healers have said so to Míriel, confirming that which is obvious. She clutches Finwë's hand, and Indis' too, in the worst of the pains, and is left more tired than she has ever been by the end. It should not be so tiring, she feels, though all the healers, and the more elderly folk, assure her that being tired is quite normal. Not this tired, says her mind resolutely, for it is not easy to convince Míriel of a thing, and especially not when she is convinced that she has the right of the matter. 


⦁ But even through the pain and exhaustion, she is delighted when she first holds her son, with eyes dark as hers, and the promise that he shall have Finwë's lovely hair, and spirit. Oh, spirit he has more than any Míriel has seen in all but Oromë, and thus not in any of the People. It crackles and blazes so fiercely that she fears at first that he shall burn her, but the fear is unfounded. For his spirit seeks hers, and the firestorm calms, morphs into a comfortable warmth, when she holds it. 


⦁ 'Have you named him?' It is Finwë who has come into the tent — he has taken to sleeping there rather than in the hut which he has built — when she is less exhausted, she shall move into it. 'Or are we to give him two names, as is done now?'


⦁ 'Two,' Míriel says with a sigh, 'for it is in such a world that he shall live in. And I have made my choice — Fayanáro shall he be called by me.'


⦁ Finwë blinks. He has not felt that spirit yet, Míriel realises, and holds Fayanáro out to him. He takes their son into his arms, and gleans at once what she means. 


⦁ 'An apt choice, dear,' he says. 'But I am not so decisive as you. Let us keep it simple — he is my son. Finwion. Perhaps I shall change it later.' Míriel chuckles, for she does not expect much else from her husband. Fayanáro Finwion, she thinks to herself. It is a fine name — a name for greatness, be that in the heights or the depths. Míriel shakes the ominous thought from her head. 


⦁ 'I should like to sleep now,' she says. 'I am...worn out.' Finwë takes their son —  Fayanáro — from her arms, and she lies down upon the makeshift cot. I would lie here forever, if I could, she thinks — and slips from that thought into sleep. 
***


⦁ Indis knows what she has sworn to, when she makes her pact. 


⦁ It is between her and Finwë and Míriel — a pact almost as binding as marriage, though Indis is not married to either of them, not as they are to each other. But the pact is bound and formed by love, and it is an Oath that asks each of them to take the others' kin as their own should one of them falter, or worse, perish. To hold each other, and their friends and family, together even in the face of great trials and tragedies.


⦁ So she understands what she must do when Míriel does not wake from her slumber for a long while, and looks pale and drawn all the time, the fatigue of childbirth lingering upon her longer than anyone has seen before. People die before they tire for so long, say the whispers. 


⦁ But Indis is nothing if not faithful. And she has faith that Míriel will survive. 


⦁ More often than not, in those early days when he is an infant, Indis is the first point of call for any matter pertaining to Fayanáro, for Finwë is busy arranging search parties and shepherding people into the encampent (he does not want another to be lost, as Elwë was). She is there if he is hungry, there if he is restless, there if he cannot sleep, and there to rouse Míriel (albeit reluctantly) if he wants his mother. It is due to this that a bond of love and care forms between Indis and the son of Míriel — not a bond that is between mother and child, perhaps, but close enough to a bond between close kin. When Finwë rests by Míriel's side, she rests too, with Fayanáro lying upon her lap (or Finwë's, or Míriel's at times). 


⦁ So grows the first son of Finwë, and though he has not seen Treelight yet, his eyese burn brightly. 


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Please feel free to point out any errors, and I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments!


CHAPTER 2 TITLE
The Girl in the Wood


CHAPTER 2 INITIAL NOTES
Feanor and Luthien meet (because meeting Luthien must involve stumbling upon her somewhere in the woods :) )
Second chapter! This one was quite fun to write!

Names: For Luthien, I have settled tentatively on 'Lótyendë' as a name, from 'lót-' (flower) and '-yendë' (an older form of daughter), which means the same thing (daughter of flower(s)). Reminder that I have little idea of what I'm doing, and that I would love (am begging for) any suggestions for names that would work better.

I hope you enjoy!


CHAPTER 2
Fayanáro is bored.

He is bored very often nowadays, for there is not much to do in the encampment. Everyone is always working, or busy, or has little time to do anything fun. He has been spinning with Mother for the last little while, but she is asleep now — she says she is tired. She is tired all the time, he thinks. Father has gone away with yet another search party, for he still hasn't found his friend, after such a long time of looking. And he has already learned the names of the stars, and the plants he cannot eat, and Father says he is too young to learn how to hunt yet.

'Go for a little wander — not too far, mind,' Indis tells him when he asks her for the twelfth time if she has anything he can do. She's skinning a boar with quick, efficient moments, and there's a bit of blood in her hair, scarlet among the bright gold. 'And be back on time.'

***

When he finds himself walking in the woods, so dark that even starlight cannot be seen, and he must rely only on his eyes, Fayanáro is quite surprised. He did not mean to wander so far away. Indis will be furious. No one is allowed into the woods but the search parties.

He can't deny, however, that it's an interesting place. There's all kinds of flowers, some pretty, some deadly, and others both. The trees are very dense, and dark, and if he makes a little game of it, he can see people in their trunks — a gnarled nose, funny-looking eyes, or a painful sort of smile is rather unusually common. But it is a very quiet place, in precisely the way woods never are. There are no insects chirping, nor birds — not even wind in the trees. Maybe I should leave, thinks Fayanáro when he realises. These woods are different, somehow.

Suddenly, there is a noise like the beating of many small wings, followed by the melodic singing of birds — this too, not like normal birdsong, for it is eerily beautiful and terrifyingly synchronised. Fayanáro strains his ears, trying to identify the birds. Nightingales. But there's something else, too.

And indeed, among the singing of the nightingales there is a person's voice. It's a young voice, but Fayanáro does not know that, for he has neither seen nor heard anyone as young as himself before. Yet it thrums with something other, just as the birds do, and as the wood does. Something seems to draw him towards it.

He turns in a circle on the path, carefully locating the voice, and settles his eyes upon a thornbush, behind which he believes this mysterious singer to be. Pushing through it is quite hard, and he finds that after he thursts himself through the bush, not only is he scratched all over, but his tunic also has small tears in several places. Yet he does not mind, because he has been proven right — for there is a person on the other side.

A little girl (the same age as him? Fayanáro is shocked at the realisation) is sitting with her legs stretched out in front of her, leaning against a tree full of chirping nightingales — the very same Fayanáro has heard from beyond the bush. Her skin is far paler than his, and hair is dark, but blue-black rather than his full black. He is sure that he has never seen anyone who looks like her. And the oddest thing of all is that her eyes shine. Even more so than Father's eyes, and those have beheld the light of the Trees themselves.

Fayanáro only realises that his movements have been heard when the birds scatter from their many perches on the tree and take to the sky with a frenzied flapping of their wings. The girl stops singing, turns to look up to the tree, and sighs. Then she gets up, and crosses the small clearing to glare at him.

'Now you've scared the birds off!' She hisses. 'Stay still, and be quiet!' Even her speaking voice seems to have a sort of music woven into it. Fayanáro opens his mouth to ask her what her name is — but he can't. He tries a little louder, and no sound emerges. His head spins in confusion, and he tries to wave to her to catch her attention instead. Yet he cannot move his arm. Nor, now that he thinks of it, his legs. Has he swallowed something poisonous by accident?

She begins to sing gently, as if coaxing the birds back to their tree. It takes a little while, but she smiles with triumph when the first bird lands back onto a leafy bough. The rest of them follow suit, and soon enough the tree is full again, though the birds are making far less noise than they were before.

Fayanáro feels something snap in the air realises that it isn't poison, but her. 'You did something, didn't you?' He shouts. He is, grudgingly, impressed — he doesn't know anyone who can do that, or sing this well. But he is angry more than anything else.

'You didn't know when and how to shut up,' she replies glibly, humming a little tune under her breath before sitting down cross-legged underneath her tree. 'What's your name?'

'Tell me yours first,' he snaps back, walking towards her tree and throwing himself down opposite her. 'After all, you're not the one who was mysteriously shoved into a thornbush and forcefully silenced.' She only grins, as if she doesn't mind telling in the slightest.

'Lótyendë,' she says. 'Do you live here? I don't think I've seen you before. Really, I haven't seen anyone but the birds before. Oh, and your name?'

He wonders whether to lie, just out of spite, and decides that it isn't worth the effort. 'It's Fayanáro, and I don't live here. Clearly no one does, if it's only the birds that have kept you company.' How does she live all alone? he wonders. Perhaps she does whatever she did to me to her prey. It occurs to him quite suddenly that if this is the case, then she might eat him. He shakes his head, and decides that she must be lying, and that she lives on the other side of the encampent from him, where he hasn't really gone.

'You can stay, you know,' says Lótyendë. 'I don't get people around here, ever. Where are you from?'

The question is so very odd that Fayanáro can't hold back his snort. 'Where everyone comes from,' he tells her. She looks at him blankly, and he adds, 'The encampment?! Where you live? Surely you don't live here?!'

'Didn't I just tell you that?' She rolls her eyes. 'If I didn't, then I'll tell you now: I. Live. Here. Not in any encampent at all. I didn't even know there are enough people around here to make up a whole encampent.' Fayanáro knows that's just lies. The encampent is so large that people can see it from miles off. 'I've never been outside of these woods.'

There's something sad, and sort of lonely in her voice. Longing, even. As if she wants to know about what's outside. As if she doesn't know in the first place.

Fayanáro suddenly feels very mean for having said what he has, and he feels obligated to explain. 'There's a lot of houses, spread out over this clearing.' Lótyendë sits up straight with interest, and he continues. 'The houses, well they're huts really, aren't big — everyone says we had bigger houses when we moved a little less, but that we don't need them, because we're just waiting here awhile before we leave.'

Her face falls as quickly as it has brightened. 'You're leaving? Now?' He shakes his head.

'Soon,' says Fayanáro, 'but I don't know when that is. My father is waiting for a friend of his who got lost somewhere around here, not very long ago — at about the time of my begetting, actually. We're going to keep going once we find him.'

'Where are you going?' Lótyendë has started plaiting strands of long grass idly, and the birds have picked up their singing a little, as if they are now comfortable with him being there.

'West,' Fayanáro replies simply. Where Father says the Powers live, where the Trees are. Where there's a lot of light, all the time. 'Aman.' He doubts whether she knows about it — if she doesn't know anyone in the encampment, it's unlikely. But she looks at him with a considering gaze, as if she knows exactly what he's talking about, and nods.

'Which way is west?' she asks.

'Which way are the mountains?' he asks. Lótyendë points away to his left, and he turns around, then points forward. 'That way.'

Lótyendë hums, and nods. 'That way.'

Far off, Fayanáro can hear chanting voices, calling hunters and gatherers and search parties back. I'm late. He startles, and leaps to his feet. 'I have to go. Now.'

Lótyendë frowns. 'Will you be here tomorrow?' He nods absently, trying to pinpoint the direction of the voices. 'Will you come and talk to me again, then? I could show you around the woods.'

It'll be less boring than the first part of today was. And far less boring than every other day. 'Yes,' he says at once. 'But I have to go now, or I'm as good as dead. I'll see you tomorrow, Lótyendë.' He turns towards the thicket again.

'Bye, Fayanáro,' she says. 'Oh! And you're going the wrong way. The way to the voices is over there.'

***

Dinner is already roasting over the fire by the time he gets back, and Indis is waiting right beside it with a tight frown on her lips. Fayanáro does his best not to fiddle with his hair. 'I told you not to be late,' says Indis.

He almost blurts out that he met an odd little girl in the woods and got caught up in a chat. 'I lost track of time,' he says instead. 'Mother isn't awake, is she?'

'I am,' Mother snaps, poking her head out from the door of the hut. Fayanáro blanches. 'Where were you?'

'Other side of the encampment,' he mumbles, trying not to twitch at the lie. 'I'm fine. It's more interesting anywhere else than it is here.' She sighs in exasperation.

'Your clothes are all torn,' she says, clicking as she kneels by him. 'You'll mend those now, after we've eaten. Yes, with the good needles, but you aren't to lose them. The rest of you will heal.' She smiles. 'If you're careful, and come back on time, then we'll worry far less. Hm?'

Fayanáro sighs with relief, and throws his arms around her in assent as he thinks, I cannot be late tomorrow. But the thought of seeing Lótyendë makes him feel bright, and happy — he suspects that they might be on the way to becoming friends, and he hasn't had a friend yet. Not a real one his age.

He's quite sure that it's going to be wonderful.


CHAPTER 2 FINAL NOTES
If anyone picked up on it, the meeting is loosely inspired by a scene from 'The Lives of Christopher Chant' by Diana Wynne Jones (because that thing changed me as a person :D)

Feel free to point out any errors, and I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments!


CHAPTER 3 TITLE
Broken Rules


CHAPTER 3 INITIAL NOTES
In which the whole matter of Elwe's disappearance is found out.
First Luthien POV! Reminder that 'Fayanáro' is Feanor, and 'Lótyendë' is Luthien.

Hope you like it!


CHAPTER 3
All Lótyendë has known about other people has been from Father's stories. Really, until she met Fayanáro all those months ago in her clearing, she did not quite believe that they even existed — up until then, she did not know any other people save for Father (Mother didn't count as people, really — she was far too different). But Fayanáro's stories tell of so many people — not just his father and mother and Indis, but hundreds, thousands of others! And when she asks what he means by thousands, and he tells her to count the leaves on her tree, and imagine that all of them are people, she feels dizzy with wonder that there are so many people out there to meet and talk to and listen to!

But they're still just stories. She still hasn't met any of them apart from Father and Fayanáro.

I'd like to go with Fayanáro, the way he keeps coming all the way here to meet me, she thinks. She's been thinking about it for a while now. But Mother says it isn't safe.

She hears the sound of pattering feet, and jumps down from the tree, scattering birds and falling leaves all over. A moment later, Fayanáro emerges into the clearing, and grins at her.

'Are they still looking for your father's friend?' she asks.

'Haven't found him yet,' he replies. There's a different kind of stitching on his tunic today — Lótyendë keeps meaning to ask if he can teach her, for Mother doesn't know how to sew, and Father only knows the basics. He says that a good friend taught him once. 'Have you seen him around?'

'You know I never see people around.' She sighs discontentedly. 'Would you be able to convince other people to come here? It's nice talking to people — I'd love meeting them.'

Fayanáro shakes his head ruefully, and follows her as she skips down the path that leads to the rock pools. She has a feeling he would like to see them. 'No one even knows that I'm here. I can't really tell anyone.'

That's odd, thinks Lótyendë. 'If there's so many people around,' she reasons, 'you have to have told someone.' He shakes his head. 'Not even your parents? Or Indis?'

'Especially not them,' he says, and an odd sort of flush colours his cheeks. 'They'd never allow me.'

Lótyendë hums in assent, and walks onward, but her mind is whirling. Does he really come here without being allowed? She can barely think about doing something without both Mother's and Father's permission. 'If you don't tell anyone, and you're not allowed,' she says slowly, 'then you're...breaking rules?'

'I suppose I am!' He taps her on the shoulder. 'Is there anything else you can show me about singing? I can hear the trees now if I try.'

But Lótyendë doesn't hear him. Instead, she's trying to make sense of what Fayanáro has said, and berating herself for not noticing it before.

You can break rules! She thinks. Break them to pieces! It's no wonder, really. They're just words, not Words. Promises, not Oaths. They can be broken just like anything else.

Suddenly, Lótyendë finds herself very eager to break a rule. Perhaps just for the thrill of it.

'I will,' she says at last to Fayanáro, remembering his question, 'if you take me to visit your family.'

Fayanáro gasps, and Lótyendë turns around to face him grimly. She isn't going to back down from this. 'No,' he snaps. 'I just said that no one knows! I'll get in trouble if they find out!'

'You're already breaking rules, aren't you?' She can't see the problem — the rule is already broken, isn't it? What difference does breaking it more make?

'But no one knows!' He's forgotten to be quiet again, and his voice rings out. All the quiet things start moving about agitatedly. 'You aren't allowed to go out of here either, are you?' She pales, and he purses his lips together in vindication. 'I'd assumed — you would have tried if you hadn't been forbidden. So imagine that you did go outside somewhere, and went back to wherever you live, and your parents — funny, you've never told me anything about them — found out?'

'I can't imagine, because I don't know!' she cries. It isn't as if she's been in trouble before! 'But I'm so...starved for talking. I want to talk to all of these people! I want to learn how to make those whorl things with thread from your mother, and find out about your father's friend, and talk to Indis about her family that has already gone west, and meet all those thousands of people! It's so hard knowing that they're right there but I can't see them! And now you've told me I can, but only if I can stand 'being in trouble', as you put it. So be it! I'll be in trouble, and maybe you will too, but you will take me there! Or I'll follow you — you can never find me when I hide, not even if you try your hardest. So I'll follow you there if you won't take me.' She's out of breath by now, and her voice, too, has grown far too loud. Some of the flowers are shrivelling from the sheer rage.

When she falls silent, everything feels far too quiet.

Then Fayanáro smirks, and says, 'You know, you're right. What's really going to happen if we break some more rules?'

***

Today, Míriel thinks, is a good day.

She's been having more of those lately, though she does not know whether this is something caused by the lack of heavy travelling, or if she is genuinely getting better. Perhaps it's a bit of both. Or perhaps it's that there's a great joy in being alive now, despite the occasional pain, because she is watching her son grow, and eager for the day to come when he shall be old enough, or she shall be well enough, to travel. Indeed Finwë has scoured almost all the great forest with his people, and she is sure that he shall find Elwë soon.

Her fingers fly, lightning-quick, over her rectangle of cloth, and the Valinorean needle flashes in the firelight. A pattern of stars take shape underneath it, the Sickle of the Powers prominent in yellow while the stars around twinkle in white. It's a whimsical thing, but she has been making it almost as a token of memorial, for Finwë has told her that it is nigh impossible to see the stars from Valinor.

Suddenly, there is the sound of quick, familiar footsteps behind her. Míriel smiles, and sets her work down to face her son. 'Didn't you just leave?' she asks.

'I...' he trails off, fiddling with the embroidery on the hem of his tunic. 'Is anyone else home?'

She shakes his head, and beckons him closer. 'Is something the matter?'

He blinks a few times, staring down at the floor, and finally murmurs, 'There's a friend who wants to meet you.'

Míriel can't help but laugh. 'Is that all?!' she exclaims. 'There's no need to be so nervous about it. I didn't know of any other children of your age, or even any children, but with this many people and so long a time to wait there must be some. I think I heard something about Elmo getting married...'

And a girl appears.

Well, Míriel knows that she must have walked, or perhaps run up to the house, but it seems so quick that she may as well have appeared out of thin air.

She turns to the girl, and smiles.

'Can you really do all those things with thread? Can you teach me? I saw all these people around — what do they all do? Do you all know each other?' The girl is speaking so fast that even Míriel (who is not a slow speaker herself) cannot quite keep up with her.

'Well met, dear,' she says, and the girl blinks. Fayanáro sighs. 'What's your name?'

'Lótyendë.' The girl beams. 'Are you Fayanáro's mother? You must be.' Míriel nods. I have not heard of any child called Lótyendë, and there are few of them as it is in the encampment. 'I've always wanted to see where he lives — it seems so much more interesting!'

Míriel frowns at the odd phrasing. 'Where do you live, then, Lótyendë?'

'Around here, but not here,' Lótyendë replies, paling a little, and looking around. When she meets Míriel's eyes again, she notices that they shine, somewhat as Finwë's do. Just...more.

'Well,' says Lótyendë quietly, confirming Míriel's suspicions that there is something more to the matter, 'it's...quite far away. In the woods.' Her voice picks up speed. 'So I've never actually seen any people other than Fayanáro and Father, because Mother...' and she trails off again.

A child in the woods, she muses. And her father is a person but her mother... hmm. She has a feeling that she has come to a rather important conclusion.

'I might know your father, if you say he is a person,' Míriel says gently. 'Do you know his name?' She shall have to speak with Fayanáro about this matter soon — it truly is fortunate that he has found nothing worse than this girl with glowing eyes there.

'It's Elwë,' Lótyendë replies, and Míriel goes completely still. 'Do you know him? He does mention a lot of old friends — are you the one who taught him to sew?'

She nods absently, not quite sure what to think. Elwë. Right here all this time. With a wife and daughter.

'Fayanáro,' she snaps, finding her voice at last and turning to her son. 'We'll talk about where you should and shouldn't be going later. Go and find Indis, and tell her to call the search parties back in. And as soon as you find Finwë, send him here.' He nods and runs off, and she turns back to Lótyendë. 'We've been looking for your father for a long time — Fayanáro's father is a good friend of his.' Lótyendë nods in understanding — he must have told her about the search. 'You'd best stay here and talk to him so that we can contact Elwë — I'm sure he'll be thrilled to know that we're still here. Until then, how about I teach you the basics of sewing, hm?'


CHAPTER 3 FINAL NOTES
Please feel free to point out any errors, and I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments!


CHAPTER 4 TITLE
To Choose One's Path


CHAPTER 4 INITIAL NOTES
In which Elwe and Melian make a choice.


CHAPTER 4
In the woods, Finwë thinks, shaking his head. With a Maia, of all things. Of course Elwë would do something of the sort — always too curious.

He stares down at his friend's daughter — it is clear to him that there is something of the Powers to her, with her glowing eyes and too-much grace. She looks to be about Fayanáro's age — not so very old at all — but there is an ancientness in her eyes. Perhaps it is reflected from her mother's?

'I can take you there,' she says to him, smiling. He can scarce believe that Fayanáro has found her by accident — of course, while doing something he ought not to be. In the distance, he can hear the chastisements that Míriel and Indis are subjecting him to. He listens, and decides that there is no need for him to add on to their words. 'Probably just alone, though. He hasn't seen other people for a while.'

Finwë kneels down in front of the girl, and tries to smile comfortingly, though he is restless. Not all of the Powers and their servants are working for the good of the world. He has other misgivings besides about the whole situation — especially the matter of whether Elwë is there willingly or not. 'He will not mind,' he tells her, hoping it is true. 'We were very close friends, he and I. Besides, I am afraid to go inside alone, lest I become lost.'

The girl — Lótyendë, it seems she has been named, and it is her only name — shakes her head, and laughs a little. 'Father wasn't actually lost. He just met Mother.' Mother, Finwë muses. It is possible that Elwë has remained within that great wood of his own will, for his daughters speaks ill neither about him, nor about the Power with whom Elwë seems to have wed.

Finwë does not think about whether Elwë will wish to be taken from his home (or as near as home his current location is). He cannot refuse. Elwë will come with him, surely. They are friends. Surely!

Lótyendë is still silent — uncannily so, to Finwë. How am I to talk to her? What of?

He sighs with some relief when he hears others approach — that, he is sure, is the final search party.

'See?' he says to Lótyendë, gesturing to the gathering of eight behind him. The others murmur awkward greetings, and Finwë just knows that they're wondering about her eyes. 'There are not so many of them that they would be startling to Elwë.' He has almost started to sound pleading.

Lótyendë considers him with an expression that is so grave as to be comical. And at last, she agrees. 'Alright. There's not so many, I suppose. And he should be happy enough to see you.'

***

Lótyendë is still unconvinced that Father won't be angry at her for bringing so many people home. Home isn't like everyone else's houses, she knows now — it's just a cave that's rather larger than it looks, frequently visited by nightingales and lit by flowers on a roof covered with vines rather than by stars. But what worries her more is what Mother might say.

She hopes belatedly that Fayanáro is in less trouble than she might be. To her, both Míriel and Indis seem frightening, not to mention Finwë, who's an entirely different kind of terrifying — all focused and bright-eyed like no other people are. Not the way she and Mother are, either. Then again, Mother might be worse when she's angry. I've never really seen her that way.

The company from the encampment, to her mild amusement, isn't very good with the woods at all — she thinks that their tripping over roots and startling at the silence is all a bit much. But Lótyendë doesn't talk to them — they seem to be having whispered conversations of their own.

Quite suddenly, something horrible occurs to her. They're going to leave when they find Father.

Would Father...leave her behind? Would Mother? She knows others like her in Valinor, doesn't she?

They can't, Lótyendë decides. I won't let them go anywhere. Not without me.

She is, though she knows the way, almost surprised when she sees the cave looming in front of her — she's been too lost, thinking. Behind her, everyone has fallen silent — they aren't even murmuring anymore.

Lótyendë stops and turns to look at Finwë's companions. 'We're here,' she says.

They stare back at her uncomprehendingly.

They can't see it, she realises with a start, suddenly rather afraid that they'll think she's playing a prank on them. 'Father!' she calls out instead. 'Can you come out?'

After a moment's silence, she hears his reply, and thanks Mother's Allfather that he's home and not elsewhere. 'Of course, dear! You have come back rather early — are you hungry?' Lótyendë can hear his footsteps coming closer.

She turns to the others and whispers urgently. 'Look a little...less.' They look too much, in a way. It's as if they have more of a presence than other things, and it's a bit intimidating. Especially when unexpected.

'Maybe we can pick the berries by...' and his voice, getting less muffled with every step, suddenly comes to a crystal clear stop.

Lótyendë whirls around and runs to Father, embracing him and burying her hands in his hair. His mouth is hanging open, and he seems to be swaying a little. She pulls away. 'I'll explain,' she says quickly. But he doesn't seem to hear.

'F...' he breathes, 'Finwë?'

Finwë, for his part, looks about as overjoyed as Father looks shocked. 'Elwë!' he cries, running forward. 'It's...it's really you!'

Lótyendë thinks to herself that it's a good thing that Finwë has fast reflexes, for as soon as he is close enough, Father stumbles into his arms, and faints.

***

Melyanna feels a spike of emotion that does not belong to her, and calmly cleans the mud from her hands. Her flowerbed lies abandoned for the moment, for it seems that her husband is in distress.

The situation becomes dishearteningly clear when she emerges from the enchantment to be faced by Elwë, a company of nine other 'Eldar' as Oromë has termed them, and her daughter. Elwë is unconscious, Lótyendë looks contrite, and the Eldar for their part are staring wide-eyed at her — all save the one who appears to be the leader, dark-haired, grey-eyed and tall. There is light in his eyes — the same light of Yavanna's Trees that shines in her husband's. He has seen my kin before, she realises. No wonder he isn't as awed.

Melyanna makes the caves visible for the convenience of the other Eldar. All save for the leader let out soft gasps.

'Welcome,' she says evenly. 'What brings you here?' She turns to her daughter, and whispers sharply in her own tongue, 'Didn't I tell you not to stray from the woods?' The present Eldar all flinch at the words. 'We'll deal with that later.' Then she turns back, and beckons the leader forward.

'Greetings, my lady,' he says, bowing deeply. 'I am Finwë of the Tatyar, a dear friend of your...' and here he pauses, seemingly to gather his thoughts, 'your husband, if I am not mistaken. Elwë is a dear friend of mine, and I have been searching for him for many years.'

'Twenty-three, by my count,' she says. There are Maiar still that travel between the two shores frequently enough to give her the count of Tree-years. 'Perhaps I should apologise for the confusion. Elwë and I met in these woods, all those years ago, and we hold great love for each other — we are wed by both your customs and mine, insofar as mine may be termed customs. You have met my daughter, yes? How did she come by you?'

'She has befriended my son,' he replies, and it becomes quite clear to Melyanna that it is this other child that has done the initial sneaking. It cannot be helped, she decides. And I cannot hold Lótyendë back from the world, nor do I intend to.

'Very well,' Melyannadeclares with a slight smile. 'You have satisfied your curiosity then, and you need not fear for Elwë's safety — he is well, and happy. If there is anything else I may help you with, please tell me, else I am sure that you have important duties to attend to.'

Finwë glances rather awkwardly at Elwë, then back at her. 'My lady, er...'

'Melyanna,' she supplies. And now it must come to this. Rather a pity, for I loved this land so, far more than Aman.

'As I understand it,' says Finwë, 'Elwë wished to...journey with me and our people. To Aman. He was the leader of his people before he disappeared, and they need him, greatly.' By the tree, Melyanna sees that Elwë is starting to stir. Finwë, too, turns to him as he pulls himself up against the tree-trunk, and breathes deeply.

'I never thought I would see you again,' Elwë murmurs to Finwë, and Melyanna steps away from the other Elda a little. Her husband continues. 'Finwë, I — I am so very glad that you are here. But I have...responsibilities. A wife and a daughter with whom I am loath to part. I cannot...'

Finwë lets out a soft sigh, and looks away.

'I don't want to part!' exclaims Lótyendë, quite suddenly. 'If you're going, I'm coming with you.' Her mind is, Melyanna can tell at once, firm on the matter.

Elwë reaches out to her, and takes her into his lap, her dark tresses mingling with his silver. 'I would not leave you for the world, my little flower. And if you and your mother were willing, I would follow my friend, who is near as close to me as you and your mother are, to the faraway shores where he wishes to go.' He sighs, and says at last what Melyanna has expected now for some time: 'In this, I shall defer to your judgement, Melyanna. Where you go, I shall follow — no matter what, I cannot be parted from you.'

Melyanna is not a Maia of Fate. She knows little of the dooms of Mandos, nor of the arts of Vairë. But she has studied long and well under Yavanna and Estë both, and she knows where lie pain and death, and where life and healing. She knows that she must choose the latter path.

'It has been some time,' she says at last, 'since I have visited my kindred. Perhaps it is time, that I dwell among them once more, with my family.' At her words, tears spring to Finwë's eyes, while the faces of his silent company are flooded with the relief of knowing that some part of their leader's heart is not to be left behind when he leaves for Valinor. Elwë, in his turn, looks deliriously happy.

'We have little to gather,' Melyanna continues. 'We shall accompany you to your own encampment — I am eager to meet properly with you, Children of the Allfather.' Then she turns away, beckoning Lótyendë to follow her inside. Perhaps she can dispense her scolding as she packs.

When Finwë and his company leave, Elwë, Melyanna and Lótyendë walk with them.


CHAPTER 4 FINAL NOTES
And so it begins! Properly, that is.

Please feel free to point out any errors that you may notice, and I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments!


CHAPTER 5 TITLE
We Can't Fall Apart


CHAPTER 5 INITIAL NOTES
I'm not too happy with the pacing in this one, but I think it's the best I can do for now. Also this is far less cheerful than the rest of the chapters so, be warned.

Here you go!


CHAPTER 5
The Journey recommences with a loss, for some of the Nelyar choose to remain behind. After all, Elmo has a small child, and of the three brothers who lead the Nelyar, he has always been the most reluctant to leave for Aman. But he parts with both Elwë and Olwë quite amicably, deciding that he shall take up the leadership of those Nelyar that remain with him.

Fayanáro takes to travelling with near-unparalleled joy and fervour — the world, he realises now, is far wider than a wood and a clearing. There are streams and great rivers to cross, plants and animals to study, songs to sing both on the road and by the fire, and things to make. And already he is fond of making things, be it cloth or a carved ornament, or even a knife of sharpened bone. Perhaps the only one who exceeds his love of travelling and all that is around him is Lótyendë, for it is a far newer thing to her to be among so many people and new things. More often than not she is with Finwë and his family, for Elwë and Melyanna are engaged constantly in keeping the large host of the Nelyar safe, and cannot give her the same attention as they used to.

Along with Lótyendë, Fayanáro is first taught to hunt by Míriel and Indis — both formidable hunters, and well-versed with the forests around them. During the march, he wanders often with Lótyendë, returning always to the host by the time tents are raised and fires lit. And when they sit by the fire together at night, Finwë regales them with tales of his journey to Valinor, and Þerindë teaches them her craft.

But it starts to become clearer as the journey goes on that Míriel is not getting better. If anything, she is getting worse.

***

Mother hasn't been at the wheel for days, Fayanáro thinks. It's unusual — she hasn't been hunting recently either.

'Mother hasn't come hunting with us for a while now,' he says to Indis one day. Beside him, Lótyendë hums in agreement, and delicately pops another berry into her mouth.

'She hasn't been feeling like it,' Indis replies mildly. 'Nothing much to it.' But her voice seems too light somehow. As if she's hiding something.

No, thinks Fayanáro. She can't be sick again. She's been better for so long now. And we're nearly at the sea! She'll get better once we get to Valinor. If she's sick, which she isn't.

When they return, there's a stranger by the tent.

Well, he isn't really a stranger — Rúmil of the Tatyar is well-known among the People for escaping the Dark Rider's clutches and spending most of his time listening to the birds talk. But Fayanáro doesn't know him personally — and he doesn't think his family does either. Yet here is Mother, talking merrily to him as if they are old friends (and indeed, talking merrily at all — it's been a while since Fayanáro has seen her do that).

'There you are,' she says, turning to them. Indis smiles at Rúmil, then takes the basket of berries from Lótyendë's hands 'Rúmil, you haven't met my son, have you? Nor Elwë's daughter?'

Rúmil laughs brightly, and turns to them. 'I think I would remember if I had met them, but I believe I usually leave far too early for that. Well met!'

Fayanáro and Lótyendë murmur polite greetings.

'Now, I was here to speak of a little project of mine at length with Míriel. She was more interested than any others that I voiced my idea to — understandably, for she has similar interests and intents, but the project is still in too early stages to explain to most, and what with this travelling, progress isn't being made. I should have worked longer on it during the halt.To the pits of Utumno with these distractions, I say!'

Lótyendë bursts into laughter, and Fayanáro can't help but follow — it's just such an odd turn of phrase!

'What's the project?' Fayanáro asks, trying to stop giggling.

'Well, it has to do with what I've tentatively called 'writing',' begins Rúmil, sitting down cross-legged by the fire. 'To put words, as it were, onto cloth, or wood, or parchment. In symbols.'

'Wouldn't that need hundreds of symbols? Thousands?' asks Lótyendë, thoroughly interested by now. Fayanáro finds himself wondering about the very same thing. 'For every kind of plant and animal. For everyone's names. For every star in the sky.'

'Here's the thing.' Rúmil steeples his fingers together. 'Lótyendë is right, of course, which is why I was stuck for a long time on how it would be any better than drawings. But,' and here his face lights up with a smile, 'there are far fewer sounds in our tongue than there are things in the world.'

'Oh!' exclaims Fayanáro. That really is very clever. 'So you just have to put sounds onto surfaces so that people know what they are.'

Lótyendë frowns. 'Sounds aren't that easy to show — they're very odd things, especially Song. How exactly do you plan on showing them?'

Rúmil sighs. 'That's the trouble of it,' he agrees. 'It needs to be something that can be easily learned, and almost intuitive. I have drafts—'

'Can we see?' Fayanáro knows he's interrupting, but he can't help it. It all seems so interesting!

'We're interested, if anyone else isn't,' adds Lótyendë. 'We're very much interested.'

Rúmil purses his lips. 'Only if you don't bother anyone else with it until I'm fully done and have taught it at least to you two.' Fayanáro nods at once, and turns to see that Lótyendë is doing the same.

'Very well then,' he declares, and pulls out a tremendously thick pile of parchment from his pocket.

Fayanáro realises that he's been intending to pester someone about his 'little' project all along.

***

Indis thanks Rúmil and his timely intervention — Míriel seems far too weak now to keep two boisterous children from wandering off somewhere when no one is on the road.

She doesn't understand it — hasn't Míriel been getting better? She was entirely well near the end of the halt, and through most of the Journey. Or has she been pretending to be in good health for hers and Finwë's sakes? The words of her pact echo ominously in Indis' mind. It won't come to that, she thinks resolutely. It cannot.

As time passes, that comforting lie starts to become weaker.

Míriel is practically hobbling when they first step down onto the seashore — even the children have noticed by now.

'It's so beautiful,' Fayanáro says, holding Míriel's hand tightly. Indis is supporting her on the other side. 'And so big, too. I can't see its end.'

'You will, one day,' whispers Míriel, and her voice is so frail, so unlike the voice that she remembers singing to the trees and the stars long ago, that Indis feels like she could weep. 'And I'm sure the other side will be fairer. Go on now — I'll follow soon enough.' I'm not so sure, Míriel. Indis can't help but think it. She can't lie to herself — not anymore.

'I need to lie down,' Míriel murmurs to her as Fayanáro bounds away. 'Please, Indis. I don't think I can go on much longer.'

Despite Indis' efforts, the lie comes back, stronger. 'It's only to the island,' says Indis. 'You can rest there. And everything will be better in Valinor. Please, please.' She can't cry, can't break because it isn't going to do anyone good but by the Powers does she want to sink onto Míriel's shoulder, hold Finwë's hand, and sob until her eyes have spent their tears.

Míriel does not reply.

Indis leads her slowly to the tent, where Finwë is waiting, wide-eyed. 'I...' she whispers, not wanting to say the words. 'I don't think she has long.'

'But how...? The Journey was not so tiring, surely.' Tears spring into Finwë's eyes, and Indis can't hold back now.

'Why, Finwë?' she asks, voice trembling. 'Why must it all come to grief, just when we're so close?'Between them, Míriel straightens, and her grip on Indis' hand becomes firmer. As if she's gathering the last resolves of her strength.

Her voice, for once, doesn't shake. 'I want to see Fayanáro.'

He is there in mere minutes, Lótyendë in tow, both of them sprinting towards the makeshift hut by the seashore. Indis hates how his face pales and how he sighs in understanding as soon as he sees her expression.

'Mother...?'

'She's inside.'

Lótyendë shuffles her feet in the sand. 'Do you want me to come in?' Fayanáro shakes his head, and the girl (bless her) squeezes his hand reassuringly before running off. Fayanáro watches her go, and tiptoes inside.

'There you are.' Míriel's voice is barely audible now, and her head is all but buried in Finwë's lap. It strikes Indis suddenly how dull her hair has become — it does not gleam as molten silver, but lies limp as a spider's web swept from a tree.

Fayanáro rushes to her, and takes her hand. 'You'll get better in Valinor,' he says. It isn't as though he hasn't seen death before — he has hunted and killed beasts, seen people fall from cliffs, and said prayers for them. 'You don't have to do anything but get better.'

Míriel sighs. 'I don't think I can.' We're all crying now, Indis notes, almost distantly, for there are tears on Fayanáro's face too. 'But,' she continues, and her voice picks up strength suddenly (a last burst, Indis realises), 'I love all of you very much, and I'm sure that one day, I will see you again.'

'You can't—' starts Fayanáro.

Míriel's body goes utterly still, her last breath spent.

There is silence.

'She can't be gone,' Fayanáro whispers. 'She's just sleeping isn't she? ISN'T SHE?'

Indis pulls him close, and he buries his head onto her shoulder, and his sobs are loud, so loud, like some sort of painful counterpoint to her silent tears.

Finwë turns, careful not to disturb Míriel's body (body, for Míriel isnt there, much as they all want to delude themselves), and holds him from the other side.

'You're not going to go, are you?' Indis barely hears Fayanáro's question — it seems to her softer even than Míriel's final pleas. 'You can't leave. You can't follow her. She says she's going to come back. We have to wait.'

Finwë and Indis both shake their head at once. Indis meets Finwë's eyes, and knows: it is time for her to carry on with him, as best they can when one from their pact lies dead between them. 'Someone is always going to be there for you,' Indis whispers, trying to keep her voice steady. 'And we're going to get through as a family, because you're right. She is waiting.' Indis isn't sure if that's a lie — but she hopes it's true. If the talk of peace and bliss in Valinor is so very true, then it has to be true.

When Fayanáro has fallen asleep between them, his face still wet with tears, Indis takes Finwë's hand and speaks marriage vows with him. Pulls him close to her and kisses him, for that is all they have time to do — the pact says that they must not wait, nor fall apart, even if death separates one or more of them.

We can't fall apart, she tells herself. We can't fall apart.


CHAPTER 5 FINAL NOTES
I promise that this *is* a fix-it, but it does need to get worse before it gets better, unfortunately.

Please feel free to point out any errors you notice, and I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments!


CHAPTER 6 TITLE
Funeral, Farewell, Treelight


CHAPTER 6 INITIAL NOTES
The funeral, and the last leg of the journey to Aman. Also Findis is born.
It's been a while since I've posted -- life got in the way, sadly. But we're back!

Please do take heed that this chapter discusses the grief surrounding Miriel's death in fair detail.

Hope you enjoy!


CHAPTER 6
Lótyendë finds him staring up at the stars from atop a hill overlooking the ocean. There is no one else in sight, for news of the death of Míriel Þerindë has spread far too quickly, and they all know to leave him be, wherever he is.

Fayanáro's shoulders, she sees, are shaking. Even she is shaken awfully, and tears spring to her eyes when she thinks of the hands that helped her grip a needle and comforted her when her own parents were far away, and remembers that they have stilled forever now. Not one eye in the entire company is dry — not even Mother has been spared grief, though she believes that Míriel will be with the Lord of the Dead in Aman, and that she will walk among her people again very soon.

When Fayanáro whips around to look at her, it's terrifyingly sudden — so much so that Lótyendë flinches. His eyes bore into hers, dark as hers are bright, and hollow with grief and anguish. There are tears running silently down his face, his fingers running absently over the embroidery at his cuffs.

He notices the movement, stops to stare at the neat, lovely work under his fingertips, and lets out a single sob before turning back up to her again, hands held still in front of him.

'Are they waiting for me to come back?' he asks quietly.

Lótyendë rushes forward towards him (not quite caring if he snaps at her, if he pushes her away) and wraps her arms around him. He leans into her, and they fall to their knees, both crying harder now than before.

'She was getting better,' Fayanáro rasps, when his tears finally stop to leave a heavy silence, broken only by those soft words. 'She was getting better, and then she just...left. HOW COULD SHE JUST LEAVE?!'

They have both seen death — everyone here has, for it is common enough to be known, but not enough to be truly common. 'I don't know,' whispers Lótyendë, at a loss for a better response. 'But Mother says she's waiting with the Lord of the Dead, and that—' she cuts herself off. Is it right of me, she thinks, to talk of Mother when mine is there and his is not?

'That we'll see her again? I don't mind you saying that,' he says quietly. 'I like it, in fact. Maybe I'll see her soon.'

Lótyendë does not actually know how long it takes the spirits of the dead to heal, for Mother hasn't told her that. But she does know that they all heal and leave the Halls of the Dead someday, and what she knows even better is that hope is a good remedy for everything. It'll cure all of us, she thinks, and decides to help him swallow the same medicine down.

'We'll see her soon,' she echoes, and they sit there on the grass for a long while, staring up at the stars, listening to the waves crash onto the shore and hoping that their hope will be enough.

***

They hold the funeral within sight of the island.

Fayanáro hates the sympathetic glances and the space that clears up around him, as if he might do something wild and unpredictable if they get too close. He isn't going to do anything — just wait. Wait until I get to Valinor and she can come back.

Father has married Indis. Fayanáro sees it at once in his eyes when he finally gets back from his hilltop, and the same bond is mirrored in Indis' gaze. 'You really aren't going to leave,' he says to her after a moment of looking into her eyes, and she pulls him close to her, murmuring reassurances and slowly combing through the tangles of his hair. Father clasps his hand tightly, and Fayanáro is unspeakably grateful that his grip is firm, because he feels like the entire world is going to come crashing down on him and nothing is ever going to be the same.

But held between his father and Indis, it feels like he has something to hold on to.

Father is the one who tends Mother's body in the end, laying her out in her finest clothes, hair braided away from her face. She lies still and serene, the tracks of her last tears wiped away. He places her form, perfectly quiet, upon the site where her mound is to be — the hill Fayanáro had sat upon the night before.

The gathering by the hill is great, and they all raise their voices in mourning song — Song, Fayanáro realises, now that he has learned the difference from Lótyendë. 'May she be received upon brighter, fairer shores', they sing, 'May her suffering be at an end, and her bliss great now that she is freed from the confines of the world.' 'Freed'. He doesn't like that word. 'Taken' would be far more appropriate.

Then comes the mechanical process of building the mound. Of throwing earth upon her as the stars watch on, burying her form. Fayanáro can't help but think as he shovels, why spend so much time fixing the face of an empty body only to bury it?

He thinks back to the dullness of her hair, and the shuddering breaths, and the tear-stained face of not so long ago. Wonders what it would be like to only have that as a final memory of her. And he has his answer.

Not final, he reminds himself. I will see her again. Soon.

The last of the tents go down right after the burial — his own is among them. Many of the things they pack away are hers — the wheel, dusty and unused for some time. Clothes made as intricately as is possible by firelight and rough thread and (predominantly) bone needles. Furs. Most important of all is her last work — a rectangle of deep blue cloth, embroidered with almost whimsical white stars, the Sickle taking shape among them in yellow. Only the last yellow star is to be added — the needles (her precious, favoured steel needles) are still stuck in it, with just enough thread to finish it off. Fayanáro does not attempt to.

He simply folds the project up, needles and all, and places it into a small leather bag slung over his shoulder to rest beside a thin sheet of bark with symbols written upon it. Even that small thing is of her making — it is fitting that the flag may rest in it.

She can finish it later, he thinks. I'll keep it safe in the meantime. We shouldn't lose it.

When at last all who wish to leave are aboard the island, he looks back to her mound, just once. Then turns away towards the sea, where he might hope, truly, to meet her again.

***

Compared to the rest of the hard journey, the last leg across the great Sea is surprisingly peaceful.

The tents go back up on the island, where Indis' kin are waiting. They have not waited long, thankfully, and are as eager to depart as the Tatyar. But the island moves slowly, and there is plenty of time to see the star-speckled ocean pass by them, to feel the wind upon their faces. It is a beautiful 'vessel' too, with plants of all sorts that are seen only in Aman, so unusual and wonderful to almost all of the People that they become truly excited by the prospect of the beasts which may reside in Aman, that need such plants to grow for their survival.

Finwë is gladdened to see Fayanáro taking an interest in these.

They are all still grieving, of course — Finwë doubts that they will ever truly stop. But there are other things to be taken up with — sights unlike any they have seen. And it is good for him to see his son take up those things — to see him grieve with the hope of seeing her once more (Melyanna has spoken to him; he knows it is true). Perhaps we too can grieve with hope, he thinks.

Indis becomes pregnant quite close to the end of the journey. Truth be told, Finwë fears for her, but she is strong and fierce throughout. It brings joy to everyone, Ingwë and his people most of all. And the child is born, easily (far more easily than Finwë may have believed), just as the first of the scattered light of Laurelin and Telperion falls upon the ocean, bathing the people in it.

Finwë stands with Indis and Fayanáro on the western shore of the island some hours after the birth, the child in Indis' arms. She is golden-haired as her mother, and they both seem to glow in the mingled light.

'Is it like this...everywhere?' asks Fayanáro. Finwë nods.

'This is the light of a Mingling,' he explains. 'When both Trees shine at the same time — it occurs twice. Perhaps days ought to be measured by it.' Fayanáro hums his assent, then rises up on his toes, cautiously, to peer at his sister.

'Hold her, if you like,' says Indis, and hands the child gently to him, positioning his hands to support her. He stares into her face with wonder.

The scene would be perfect, Finwë thinks, save that there is space left for a ghost that will not join them.

'What are her names?' he asks. They answer:

'Findis Vanimírë.'


CHAPTER 6 FINAL NOTES
A note on names:
- Vanimírë: as I understand it, this should mean something like 'fair jewel'. Any mistakes in the meaning or construction are mine and mine alone (you may remember that I know nothing), so I'd love to hear more correct suggestions along the same line of meaning if they are needed :)
- Melyanna is the Quenya form of Melian's name, which I think might be more appropriate to use here (I forgot about it so I'll have to change it now -- the previous chapters will be edited to have 'Melyanna' as her name).

Feel free to point out any errors you notice, and I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments!


CHAPTER 7 TITLE
Doom


CHAPTER 7 INITIAL NOTES
Mandos speaks, and the fates of Miriel and Melian both are decided.
And I'm back!

Some of the stuff with Miriel and Melian may be hard-hitting, so more or less the same warnings as last time for a heavy dose of sadness (but remember, things will get better! Eventually).

Notes:
- Nornore: he was a Vala, and the Herald of the Valar, in the Book of Lost Tales version of events. Here his role remains a Herald, but he is less influential, and besides a Maia rather than a Vala, close to equal, but of lesser power, than the greatest Maiar (that is: Sauron/Mairon, Melian, and Eonwe, among some others).
- Ilwen: Ingwe's wife, who went unnamed for some time until (checks notes) NoME was published, so she might not be as well-known.
- 'Thulimo' with a thorn represents the fact that the 'th' to 's' change has not happened in this 'verse yet, and will most likely not happen given that the Elves will hold Miriel's fate as a grudge against the Valar. This of course has nothing to do with my own stance on the Shibboleth (yes it does), and of course I'm not trying to get into Feanor's good graces (yes I am).

Hope you enjoy!


CHAPTER 7
When the host lands at last, they are greeted by none other than a Maia.

Elwë is no stranger to Maiar, of course — after all, he is wed to one, and has been now for some years by both his count (of the stars) and hers (the mysteries and intricacies of which only she knows). Indeed he knows this Maia by name; he is Nornorë, one of the heralds of the Valar (not the greatest, certainly, for that honour is accorded to Eönwë), and Elwë remembers speaking with him during his journeys through Aman alongside his companions, and of course Oromë.

Nornorë stands now on the shores of Aman, yet unnamed, though Elwë is sure that the people will have seen to it soon enough. He sneaks a glance at Finwë, who looks up from the daughter held in his arms, and smiles at him. A whisper of 'shall we?' passes through their minds, broadening a little to catch the thought of Ingwë, who has already stepped forward, and is bowing to Nornorë. Elwë lets go of Lótyendë's hand, and she waves at him as she runs towards Finwë's son, both of them speaking quickly and brightly of the light and the warmth of the shore. Then he nods to Melyanna, and they both step forward beside Ingwë, where Finwë stands. As Elwë and Finwë bow to Nornorë, Melyanna meets his gaze as an equal, nodding in greeting.

'Welcome,' he says, his voice light, yet grand, 'Eldar, to the shores of Aman! By the grace of the Valar I greet you, and bid you rest upon these shores, to build upon the land wherever you please, where the servants of the Valar, such as myself, may assist you.'

Elwë hears as the entire host of the people falls to their knees in one motion, eyes wide at the brightness of the Maia's spirit. Elwë does the same, as do Finwë and Ingwë beside him (and even Melyanna). Nornorë looks down at her, his kin, kneeling before him, and his mouth twists into the shape of ill tidings.

'But before, there are matters to be dealt with,' says Nornorë. 'For Manwë Þúlimo, the Elder King, requests the presence of the Lords among you, and their spouses also, to their hall of judgement, Máhanaxar as you term it, before the Hill of the Trees.' At this Elwë wonders: what business could the Valar have so soon with us? And why must Nornorë be so solemn about it?

But Ingwë rises to speak assent for all six of them, as he is wont to do, for he is the oldest of them save for Melyanna. Then Indis walks forward from her place in the crowd, daughter slung to her chest with a long cloth, and Ilwen follows her.

'We shall be some days,' Finwë calls out into the crowd. Murmurs rise up. 'Remain here until we return. As well as that, I would like for you to follow any previous orders given to you by your leaders.' The murmuring quells.

From behind him, Lótyendë wraps her arms around him, and Elwë strokes her hair gently, watching Fayanáro do the same to Finwë and Indis. 'I shall be back soon,' he whispers to Lótyendë, and she patters away ffrom him to embrace Melyanna. A harsh whisper, in their tongue that Elwë doubts he will ever master, and then they move away from each other, and the children both run back to one of the Tatyarin people — is it Rúmil? No matter; Elwë is certain the people will look after them.

Nornorë blows a soft blast on a horn he holds, and then they set off.

***

They arrive on the fifth day of travelling, having walked some, then ridden upon Oromë's steeds, graciously granted (for the journey is too long to make reasonably on foot for those intending to return soon), and then walked the last distance to the Trees again.

The Ring of Doom is tall and dark — too dark, Elwë thinks, for being so close to the Trees. Sweat beads on his skin from Laurelin's heat, however, and being faced by all of the Valar at once in a hall made of dark stone comes as a positive relief.

Manwë, fair and tall and winged, speaks first, as he ever does. 'Lords of the Eldar, Ladies of the Eldar, and one of my own — I welcome you to Valinor. The peace and safety of our lands is yours forever; these places are plagued with no danger.'

Aulë rises then, jewel-twined beard glittering, and says, 'It would be my pleasure, and that of my Maiar, to assist your people with any of their works.'

Here Finwë interrupts, bowing deeply. 'My lord,' he says, 'your offer is kind beyond reckoning, but my people would suffice with your teachings alone. For we wish to have the freedom to broaden our minds under teaching, now that we are at the leisure to do so.' Elwë's breath has caught in his throat — only Finwë dares speak so to the Valar, he knows — but Aulë smiles.

'So be it,' he says. 'Now, with the leave of Manwë, we shall bid you farewell, and let you return to your people.'

But there is a hand raised in dissent. That of Náumo, ever hooded. Without precisely knowing why, Elwë feels a shiver run down his spine.

'With Manwë's blessing, Lord Ingwë and Lady Ilwen may take their leave.' Námo's manner of speech is odd — very even, with no fluctuation, and no indication of emotion. 'With Finwë, Elwë, and their spouses, I wish to speak.' Manwë waves his hand, and Ingwë and Ilwen depart, glad smiles upon their faces to return into the light.

Elwë's knees go a little weak. Manwë waves to Námo to continue.

'The crimes of those gathered here must be addressed before any progress is made in the matter of the Eldar and their residences in Aman,' Námo pronounces. Crimes? Of what crimes are we guilty? thinks Elwë.

Finwë voices his thought. 'Of what crime are we guilty?'

'Melyanna is one of our own, and her sentences we shall deal with,' continues Námo, as though he has not heard. 'But a decision has been reached among us. It is a crime, Melyanna knows, for the Ainur to meddle overmuch in the matters of the Children of Eru. She cannot thus rule as Queen by your side, Elwë, and here you must part with her. Your daughter is yours, as are your people. But Melyanna, you shall return to Estë with whom you dwelled before your departure to the Hither Lands.'

Elwë shakes his head. 'But we are bound!'

'A Child of Eru may not bind with Ainur, who are the servants of Eru.' There are senseless, childish tears in Elwë's eyes, and turmoil in his heart. Melyanna's voice whispers against his mind: I am sorry that this cannot last.

'I assent,' she speaks out loud — in Valarin, slowly enough that Elwë might comprehend.

'Then thus it shall be.' Manwë waves his hand once more, and thus it is.

Elwë feels the dissolution (or thinks he does — he is not sure what is truth now, and what is fantasy) of the bond. The threads untwining, until only what he clings desperately to is left, that will not break either by Eru's grace, or Melyanna's determination to hold it there. We shall surmount this somehow, she whispers again, into his mind — will it be for the last time? And then she is gone — here one moment, and not the next.

'Now to the matter of Finwë.' Námo does not pause to consider. 'He is bound to two of the Eldar in marriage bonds — Míriel, who is now in my halls, and Indis who stands here.'

Finwë is shivering — stunned as much as Elwë is, it seems. 'That is so,' he murmurs. 'But it is with the assent of all three of us. And if Míriel is healed enough to now be returned...'

'Returned she cannot be, even if she is healed,' Námo declares, almost ponderously, each word dropping as a stone of doom onto weak, Eldarin hearts. 'For an Elda may bond in marriage with one only, and if not, then we have agreed in this unique situation that the living bond is the one that is held. Thus the marriage between you and Míriel is void, and for your bond with Indis to endure, she may never return.'

***

Lótyendë watches with Fayanáro from a sand-dune as the horses bearing the Lords of the Eldar and their spouses ride towards the ocean.

'Do you think Mother is with them?' asks Fayanáro. His eyes have watched the west hopefully from Mingling to Mingling, waiting for riders or walkers to appear in the mountain-pass. His fingers drift to the small sack slung from his shoulders.

'I hope so,' replies Lótyendë, carefully. 'But I have...a bad feeling.'

Fayanáro's face pales so quickly that Lótyendë wishes at once to take back her words. But now the faces of the riders are clear, and there are only five of them.

'Where is Mother?' she asks. The bad feeling in the pit of her stomach deepens, and becomes more a well than a pit. She looks up again, and notices that the faces of Father and Finwë both are solemn, and that Indis' mouth is in a hard line — the sort of hard line that indicates deep-seated fury.

Fayanáro moves a little closer to her, and she leans into his warmth. The horses have stopped now, and a soft conversation seems to be taking place between the leaders and some of the people. Soon enough, Father, Finwë and Indis break away. Little Findis is still tied to Indis' chest in a sling — even her face is solemn.

Lótyendë raises a hand and shouts, 'Where is Mother?'

The shout rings out across the dune, right into her father's ears — she knows it will, for it is Mother that has taught her the trick. He flinches, and shakes his head.

'Neither of them are here,' mutters Fayanáro. 'Neither of them...'

Cresting the dune, Finwë runs forward to take Fayanáro into his arms, his eyes wet with tears, whispering something to him that is so horrific that he flinches back. Lótyendë knows to shuffle away, and let them speak. But as she does, Finwë casts a pitying glance towards her, and her heart goes cold.

'Lótyendë,' Father whispers, kneeling by her.

She throws herself at him, whispering into his ear: 'Where is Mother?'

And he replies, tearfully: 'She is not coming back, love. I am sorry.'

Stormclouds gather in the sky. A gleam of lightning, followed by thunder. The smell of burning — the heat of a firestorm. Lótyendë has gleaned it all from her father's mind — he bears it to her rather than speak — and she does not know that it is her doing.

'She can't be,' she says, Valarin (a hated tongue that sounds foul to her ears on the best of days) flowing off her tongue. Fayanáro's words echo hers in fierceness, spoken in the Eldarin tongue as they are.

Then the storm dissipates as quickly as it comes, and Lótyendë runs from the dune, senseless to all words, her sobs audible faintly even to the Valar, where Nienna weeps with her.

***

'It isn't fair.'

Fayanáro knows it isn't fair. It is their matter who marries whom, and how they arrange it — who are the Valar to meddle so in their affairs? And then take Lady Melyanna too, for the supposed crime of meddling! The hypocrites that they are.

'I know,' Father whispers to him. It's too much like the first time — Father and Indis on either side, all three of them in tears, and Mother gone. Except now, she will never come back. 'There is nothing we can do.'

Suddenly, Fayanáro cannot bear it anymore. He runs.

His feet take him to where Lótyendë is. She sits at the foot of a tree on the island, tear tracks running down her face, now sharing in his grief — both their mothers so close, yet so far. He has never begrudged her Lady Melyanna, not even after Mother's...leaving, but he wonders.

'Oh,' she says, looking up from her lap. It's horribly like the first time they met, but twisted, for everything has changed, and now there are no nightingales in the tree. 'Father told me.'

'They say there's nothing we can do.'

Lótyendë snorts, and shakes her head fiercely. 'There is. I'm sure there is. It might take forever, for all we know, but we have forever, and we'll get them back somehow.'

And as soon as she says them, the words ring true. Fayanáro nods, and repeats after her, 'We'll get them back somehow.'

It does little to lessen the grief, but that little is enough.


CHAPTER 7 FINAL NOTES
Please feel free to point out any errors, and I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments!

I'm thinking that I might continue the rest of the story (after another chapter or two here) in a second part (as part of a series), because there's a rather large time-skip that will take place soon to get the FIX part of the fix-it on the road. Just thought I'd put it here.


CHAPTER 8 TITLE
Wandering Long and Far


CHAPTER 8 INITIAL NOTES
Things start to settle down in Aman, with cities getting built and scripts being spread.
Let's not talk about how long it's been since I've updated...but I had stalled on this fic somewhat for some time, though I'm seeing a way through to the end of this part now (not quite yet...perhaps a chapter or three more).

Hope you enjoy!


CHAPTER 8
Fayanáro will not learn from the Valar. He will not live in cities that their Maiar help build, or wander the paths that they tell him to seek. He will not go to Nienna, the lady of sorrows whose pity was not enough to stay her brother's hand in judgement, to seek comfort — that will be the last place he will find comfort, if he ever manages it. He will wander as he pleases, and learn as he pleases, and from the Valar he will take nothing save that which they owe him — Mother back, and free. This he knows.

Father is opposed to it, when Fayanáro tells him that he intends to part from the greater host. 'You cannot wander here alone,' he says, watching the Maiar through the corner of his eyes. The news of Mother's imprisonment (for surely it was that!) has spread quickly, and Lady Melyanna's absence has also been noted. Few bow to the Maiar now, and speak to them only out of necessity. Their teachings are received eagerly, but with suspicion — every word is scanned thrice, and taken only when some scores of people have scrutinised and accepted it. 'It will not be safe.'

'Were we not promised safety, and freedom from all care and dangers?' retorts Fayanáro, his voice bitter. 'Now that the promise is broken, what does it matter? I wandered alone before, in danger, and I shall again, dangers or not. And others have left, too. Are there not villages all around this hill, where you intend to build some grand city? Elwë is still by the shore. Surely it is not so unsafe, then?'

'Take a companion, at least,' Father pleads. His eyes have been so shadowed lately, and his voice so weak. Fayanáro hates it, wishes he could get rid of it — wishes he could make his father smile again. 'We shall worry, Indis and I. Even Findis is yet young — she will barely have known you.'

Fayanáro places his hand in his Father's, not meeting his eyes, watching instead the play of silver-gold light upon his hair. 'I shall return, one day,' he says. 'I swear. She will know me.' And know Mother too, one day, his mind adds on. 'But I— I can't stay here. Not with everything that has happened.'

Father clasps his hand, and strokes his hair. 'I doubt I can hold you back, then,' he says, and sounds so sorrowful that Fayanáro almost takes it all back. 'But take someone with you. I heard that Rúmil wished to wander these villages? Something about spreading a new invention of his, though I do not know what he went on about. He says it's still in the 'refining process', whatever 'it' is.'

Softly, Fayanáro laughs. He doesn't remember the last time he laughed. 'That would be a good distraction.' Already what he remembers of Rúmil's script, the 'Sarati', as he called it, comes to his mind, as do some thoughts on modification. 'I shall ask him, then.'

Some days later, at the first Mingling of Lights, the first stone of the new city — Tirion, as many have taken to calling it, despite its current non-existence — is laid. Father places it down amidst a scattered collection of sticks, stones and tents forming a general outline — a stone of white marble, from a quarry not far away. It is laid atop the hill, and as he rises, a loud cheer goes up from the crowd. A cheer for hope, and a new beginning. For a moment, Fayanáro even allows himself to believe that glorious fantasy.

By the Second Mingling, he and Rúmil have already left through the newly-hewn mountain pass and away towards the sea.

***

'But it's certainly surprising how many new words have sprung up!'

Rúmil looks out from his vantage point on the hill upon which he sits. East lies the wide sea, and west the small town that he and Fayanáro have very recently 'indoctrinated', as they are jokingly calling it, into using their script. And already Fayanáro has found thirty-seven things in their speech that are different from how he and Rúmil still speak. 'I wonder if I'll even be able to understand what Father is saying by the time we return,' he says brightly from beside him, and laughs. He has laughed, and joked, and thought more over the short-seeming year they have spent travelling than he did throughout the journey across the water. It heartens Rúmil. Perhaps healing can be found in Aman after all, despite the meddling of the Valar.

'Where to next, then?' he asks. 'Which unsuspecting town shall we turn now into our unwitting followers?'

'I was thinking Alqualondë,' Fayanáro replies. It is a pretty name, Rúmil thinks, and certainly he is very eager to see these swan-ships that Elwë's people have made. 'It's been a while since I've seen Lótyendë. And those ships everyone's speaking of. They sound like a true marvel.' He gets up, and looks down to the shore, where the city is visible. 'Come! It looks only like a walk of, oh, two days, maybe?'

'Oh, rest awhile!' Rúmil mock-whines. 'Look at the beauty around. The light of the Trees stark against the darkness of the sky when you look to the east. All sorts of plants and flowers. These truly delectable-looking berries, which one of Vána's Maiar assured me are safe to it. We triple-checked, of course.' He adds the last part hastily. He will not say that Fayanáro's anger against the Valar is unjustified, of course, but sometimes they, having resided here the longest, and knowing much of the world besides from before its beginning, have sound advice to give.

Fayanáro considers him, then the berries, and nods magnanimously. 'Alright. Let us give your old bones rest, Rúmil, and taste of the fruits of Aman. We shall set off tomorrow.'

***

Lótyendë sees the travellers on the shore long before they see her.

She has taken to roaming the shores of late, for long hours without interruption. It is no substitute for the old forests in the east, and she misses them terribly, for things were better then, though there was none of this miraculous light from the Trees. But it is something, and the sea is peaceful. The shores are usually deserted this far away from Alqualondë, but clearly not so today. And the approaching pair looks somewhat familiar...

Lótyendë squints at the horizon for a moment, and then breaks into a run, flying straight at the two indistinct shapes walking towards the shore before bowling the younger one straight to the ground.

'A year!' she cries, shaking her fist at Fayanáro, who is heaving gasping breaths from the ground, where she has him pinned. 'Where have you been?'

'Sarati,' Rúmil replies in his stead, smiling at her. 'We've been spreading it, though at the rate we're making modifications, no doubt we shall have to go and spread it again as soon as our first round of spreading is done. I might even say it'll end up becoming a vicious, endless cycle.'

'So you've been travelling the continent?' Lótyendë waves magnanimously at Fayanáro and lets him up, at which point he barrels into her and clings to her long and tight, his breathing heavy, but his body in a relaxed slouch.

'We have,' Fayanáro whispers, before letting out an almost hysterical laugh. 'We're here to do Alqualondë, in fact.'

'I'll take you!' Father has been morose lately, she remembers. It'll be a good distraction. 'I've almost forgotten the writing, actually.'

Fayanáro beams, and exclaims, 'Good! We've made about a thousand changes anyway.'

'Those can wait,' she tells him, and begins to walk towards Alqualondë, gesturing for them to follow. 'But tell me about you. How are things? How long have you been travelling for?'

Fayanáro digs his feet into the sand, and kicks some up experimentally. It lands on Rúmil's robes, and he grumbles, hitching the extravagant swathes of fabric up. 'Father started building a city,' he says. 'I'm not sure if he's finished building it yet.'

'Is Findis well? And Indis?'

'I don't know,' Fayanáro mutters. 'I left in a hurry. Didn't particularly want to be around there until things...calmed down.'

Lótyendë thinks back to her own few months spent sleeping on the sand dunes with no conversation, and nods. 'What about the Sarati, then?'

'Fayanáro and I are currently arguing over,' Rúmil interjects. His words are followed by a long sigh from Fayanáro. 'We should like it if you could help us resolve the matter.'

'Let's hear it,' she declares, slowing the pace down a little. The city is almost visible now.

'Do you think,' asks Fayanáro, 'that a vowel is an independent sound?'

Lótyendë pauses to comprehend the question, then answers, 'I suppose? How do you mean?'

'You remember how the Sarati had symbols to denote vowel sounds that went with their respective consonants, correct?' Rúmil looks askance at her, and Lótyendë nods. 'Now, Fayanáro here believes that each vowel should have its own letter.'

'It might be a bit long to write,' murmurs Lótyendë. Fayanáro elbows her.

'I thought you'd agree with me,' he says.

'Or you could make it optional. Because I’d say it’s only a speed thing to use one or the other, isn’t it?’

Fayanáro and Rúmil both fall silent at once, then spin their heads around to stare at each other and burst into loud, carefree laughter.

'How did...' Fayanáro gasps, eyes teary, 'we never think of that?'

'Because you're rather silly,' Lótyendë replies, prompt and tart.

And then, just as they finally get their chortling under control, Alqualondë comes into view.

It's beautiful, when you think about it, muses Lótyendë, as she watches Fayanáro and Rúmil gasp at once at the wooden buildings facing out to the shore. The palace, one of the only stone buildings at present, strikes an elegant white figure against the silver sky. 'Needs work,' she admits, this out loud. 'We're still in the early stages.'

'Would they want to learn to write?' Rúmil asks.

Lótyendë grins at him, and at Fayanáro. 'Oh, certainly.'


CHAPTER 8 FINAL NOTES
Feel free to point out any errors you notice, and I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments!
