TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Blasphemy	starlightwalking	2022-03-23	2022-03-23	1,603	1/1	18	148	9	1,023

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Explicit	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Fingon | Findekáno/Maedhros | Maitimo	Maedhros | Maitimo, Fingon | Findekáno, Námo | Mandos, Fëanor | Curufinwë, Manwë Súlimo	Loud Sex, Playful Sex, Quenya Names, Irony, Anal Sex, Tempting Fate, Doom of the Noldor, Established Relationship, Exhibitionism, Blasphemy, Silm Kinkmeme, Back to Middle-Earth Month

SUMMARY
Maitimo tempts Death itself, though in a more exciting manner than usual.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Blasphemy


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
For Valasania.
This is, at time of posting, the 2000th Russingon fic on AO3!!! :D :D :D Thanks to Eryniel_Alasse for pointing out how close we were to hitting that milestone, and to everyone who’s ever posted a fic in this tag <3

This fic is both a prompt fill for the Silm Kinkmeme Discord and another entry for Back to Middle-earth Month :)

B2MeM prompts:
✷ Russingon Tropes Bingo Card: Fingon names Maedhros “Russandol” & Maedhros names Fingon “the Valiant”

Kinkmeme prompt from Valasania:
✷ Relationship: Fingon/Maedhros
✷ Tags: Fun sex, actual spite, knocking on heaven's door
✷ Description: "The echoes of your lamentations shall not pass over the mountains..." - "Well I'm going to make Finno make all these great sounds, see if those pass over your fucking mountains, Mandos." - "Make him feel that little death. Heh." - "Shut it."

This was a lot of fun!! Hope you enjoy!!


CHAPTER 1
Findekáno’s cry climbed the scale as Maitimo sheathed himself inside him, filling him in one swift motion. “Russo!” he moaned, pushing his hips eagerly back against his lover. “Fuck, fuck, Russandol—ai, just like that—fuck—”

“I am, vanimelda,” Maitimo rumbled, rolling his hips and pinning his lover to the bed with his only hand. “Mm, Findekáno, you’re so tight,” he groaned, and felt Findekáno’s pleasure at the praise spark bright along their bond. He thrust slowly at first, relishing the drag of his cock against Findekáno’s walls, the choked moans bursting from his lover’s kiss-swollen lips.

“Ai, ai,” Findekáno cried; “it has been—too long—”

Maitimo answered with a grunt, releasing Findekáno to wrap his arms around him, pulling him into a fierce kiss. Mine, he hissed along their bond, and Findekáno gave himself easily, rising to meet him, sinking his nails into the scarred flesh of Maitimo’s shoulders.

“Yours,” Findekáno breathed, and Maitimo lifted them up into a sitting position, allowing Findekáno to sink down even further onto his cock. They moaned in tandem, and as Maitimo thrust sharply upward, Findekáno let out another piercing cry, stifling himself before it turned into a true scream.

“Ahh, Russo, I can feel you—” he gasped. “Russo, aiiii!”

Hearing his name spoken with such fervor sent a bolt of lust shooting through Maitimo’s body. Overwhelmed, he bent to suck a bruise at Findekáno’s neck, and a stream of curses spilled from his lover’s mouth, each filthier than the last, until he could barely speak at all, bouncing in Maitimo’s lap and biting his tongue to keep quiet.

“Let your sounds fly free,” Maitimo growled. “I want to hear you, Finno—you are so beautiful in your passion—”

“R-Russandol,” Findekáno stammered. “We’ll be overheard! The castle walls are only so thick—ahh!”

Maitimo’s hand caressed his chest, then tugged firmly at his nipples. “My cock is thicker,” he teased.

Findekáno laughed, a bold, bright sound, fondness and joy bursting from his fëa alongside his lust. “Russo,” he giggled; Maitimo met his eyes, grinning, and angled his thrust to strike perfectly against his lover’s sweet spot.

In response, Findekáno let out a mighty shout, all restraint forgotten.

“Just like that,” Maitimo said, deeply pleased, and rewarded him with a firm stroke to his cock. “I know I named you Valiant for a reason, my Astaldo. Why let a little thing like being overheard cow your bravery?”

“You’re daring me,” Findekáno accused, but he did it quite loudly, enough to make Maitimo’s ears twitch. “You—hnnff, ai, yes, right there—you want me to have to—apologize to my father’s staff for disturbing their slumber—”

“It is not your father’s wrath that I court this time,” Maitimo whispered, his sultry tone making Findekáno shudder. “It was said that ‘not even the echo of your lamentation shall pass over the mountains’—”

“Is our people’s Doom really what you want to talk about right now?” Findekáno exclaimed. “I know you have better dirty talk than that, Russo—”

Maitimo kissed him into silence, but soon moved on to bite at the tip of his sensitive ear. Findekáno shouted, his cock jerking, and if Maitimo had not swiftly wrapped his hand firmly around the base he would have spilled right then. But not yet—not yet.

“You already proved that bastard wrong,” Maitimo continued, his voice rising in passion with each passing word, “when your prayer saved me from my torment—let us prove Mandos wrong once more! Your cries shall fill this land and the next—your pleasure shall be heard all the way in Aman—I shall wring such sweet music from thy lips, my Astaldo!”

“You make me brave,” Findekáno moaned, surrendering to his beloved’s will, to his thick cock hitting home inside him, to his maddening, roving hands. “T’was you who named me so—ai, Russo—”

“And it was you who named me for my hair,” Maitimo rumbled, and meeting his fiery gaze Findekáno tangled his fingers into that copper mane, pulling hard, drawing a sharp cry from Maitimo to match his own.

“Russandol,” Findekáno begged, rutting against the hard plane of his lover’s stomach, his cock trapped between them. “Ai, Russo—let me—!”

“Soon, meldanya,” Maitimo promised. “When you prove to me that Mandos himself can hear you!”

“You tempt death itself,” Findekáno exclaimed, and let out a wild laugh as Maitimo took him in hand once more.

“We shall make him feel this little death,” Maitimo declared, and with a particularly strong thrust against his sweet spot and a flick of his nail over the slit of Findekáno’s cock, he brought his lover to climax with practiced skill.

Findekáno’s voice would be hoarse for days, so mighty was his cry as he spilled into Maitimo’s hand. “Mandos be damned!” he exclaimed. “Russandol is the only lord I know!”

Maitimo groaned, the tight clench of his lover’s channel and the enthusiasm with which he played along with this petty game both dragging him inexorably to a climax of his own. With Findekáno’s fëa and hröa wrapped tightly around him, he came, shooting his seed deep in his beloved’s willing body.

“You blasphemer,” Findekáno accused fondly as they came down from their high. He wriggled out of Maitimo’s grip and tugged him back down onto the bed, his hands still twined in his lover’s hair.

Maitimo hummed absently, distracted by the bruise he had left on Findekáno’s collarbone. Reverently, he pressed a kiss to the spot, gentler this time, but no less possessively. “Guilty as charged.”

“And I love you for it.” Maitimo could hear his smile in his voice, raspy as it was. Findekáno paused, then added, “Do you really think they can hear us? The Valar? Since we invoked them?”

Maitimo snorted. “It is not as if we swore an oath,” he scoffed, “or even took marriage vows in their sight!”

“But if we did...” Findekáno mused, a little wistfully, and Maitimo’s heart clenched. Ai, but that was not something he could offer, Oath-bound as he was.

“I do not think Mandos would make an exception of his Doom, not even for our sinful scandal,” he said gently.

“But is it the words that are unheard?” Findekáno inquired. “Or do they indeed reach the Valar’s ears, and simply go unheeded?”

“Finno,” Maitimo groaned. This was not the pillow talk he wanted to have!

“You started it!”

“Well, I regret it!”

Findekáno pressed their foreheads together, smirking. “Do you?”

Maitimo remembered the ecstasy that had overcome him with each of Findekáno’s wild cries. “No,” he admitted.

“I thought so.” Findekáno kissed him. “Blasphemer.”

“It runs in the family,” Maitimo shot back, wrapping his legs around him, tugging him ever closer.

Findekáno wriggled a little in his grip, putting up a mock fight. “Would that the scion of Fëanáro’s House might release me!” he said dramatically.

Maitimo laughed, then captured him in a deep, adoring kiss. “I love you,” he murmured, suddenly overwhelmed with the truth of it. He would blaspheme the Valar day and night for Findekáno; he would blaspheme even his father for the sake of this precious love.

Findekáno sighed, no doubt guessing the turn his thoughts had taken. “Ai, Russo. I love you too.”

“I suppose this, then, counts not as an echo of lamentation?” Fëanáro said snidely.

Námo did not dignify his most unruly prisoner with a response, simply staring at him with eyes of night. His silence was answer enough, however, and Fëanáro smirked.

“You could always rescind your Doom, if you grow sick of hearing such wanton blasphemy,” he goaded. “And it’s not as if I have any desire to hear my son swiving that Nolofinwion bastard into—”

“For blood ye shall render blood,” Námo intoned. “Tears unnumbered shall ye shed.”

“Don’t pretend this is only my punishment,” Fëanáro seethed. “I only ‘get’ to hear them because you intrude upon my quiet reflection, or whatever it is I am supposed to do here!”

The ice in Námo’s soulless eyes could have frozen even the hottest forge—but it was no match for the indignation of the Spirit of Fire.

“I don’t know, I think it’s rather sweet,” Manwë admitted, only for his companion to send a dead-eyed glare his way.

“You already went against our Doom for him once,” Námo said. “Have you forgotten the slaughter of the Teleri?”

Manwë sighed. “I have not,” he said, “but neither have I forgotten the desolation of the Helcaraxë. I am only...glad, to hear that this prince whose faith in us has never waned has found happiness of his own.”

“To evil end shall all things turn that they begin well,” Námo warned. “Such happiness found with a son of Fëanáro cannot endure.”

“It was not only for Findekáno that I answered that prayer,” Manwë said softly. “There is much I regret pertaining to the Flight of the Noldor.”

“And if you answer their prayers now, and give them false hope that we might intercede in greater things, what then shall they do when the Oath betrays them once more?” Námo demanded. “They are the Dispossessed. Even you, Súlimo, cannot unmake that awful vow. What next shall you ask of me? To return the dead to life, even if they be mortal?”

And though it was Námo Mandos who possessed the greatest foresight of the Valar, Manwë Súlimo was closest to the thought of Eru, and so he only smiled, for he knew it would not be himself who broke that law when that petition came, born of a love just as great as the bond between Maitimo Russandol and Findekáno Astaldo.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Thanks for reading, and please comment if you enjoyed!
You can find me on tumblr @arofili.