TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Fire and Flame	starlightwalking	2021-05-07	2021-05-07	1,552	1/1	20	120	12	1,161

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Teen And Up Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Fingon | Findekáno/Maedhros | Maitimo, Fingon | Findekáno & Maedhros | Maitimo, Fingon | Findekáno + Maedhros | Maitimo	Maedhros | Maitimo, Fingon | Findekáno, Ereinion Gil-galad, Erien (Daughter of Fingon), Background Finwëans - Character	Queerplatonic Relationships, platonic marriage, AroAce Marriage, Platonic Soul Bonds, Aroace Maedhros, Aroace Fingon, queerplatonic russingon, platonic co-parenting, Trans Male Character, Trans Fingon, Trans Pregnancy (implied), Post-Childbirth, Naming children, Quenya Names, Valinor, Everything is Beautiful and Nothing Hurts, Alternate Universe - Nothing Bad Happens, Elf IVF, magic pregnancy, Domestic Fluff, Aspec Arda Week 2021, Gil-galad Son of Plothole, Gil-galad Russingonion

SUMMARY
Maitimo and Findekáno get creative when they decide they want a child.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Fire and Flame


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
Inspired by Copper and Emerald by starlightwalking
For Aspec Arda Week Day 5: Relationships!

This is very much a sequel to “Copper and Emerald” (also linked as inspiration), a qp Russingon fic I wrote recently :) This is an AU where nothing goes wrong and everyone is happy - very fluffy and self indulgent!

The sandcastle scene was low-key inspired by this art by @alackofghosts.


CHAPTER 1
“You really want a child, don’t you?” Findekáno asked softly.

Maitimo started guiltily, tearing his gaze away from where Tyelperinquar and Itarillë played together on the shores of Alqualondë. He tried not to dwell on it, he really did, but he’d grown up surrounded by children and had always imagined himself as a father. He hadn’t...he’d long since accepted that would not be his fate, when he first realized he did not wish to wed or do anything regarding the creation of a child, but...

“I...” He sighed. He knew he could not hide from Findekáno, ever present in his heart and mind, the green stone ring on his finger a reminder of their bond even when they were parted.

“Yes,” he admitted. “But I know I cannot. And now that we’re...” He blushed, taking Findekáno’s hand. “Well, any chance I might have married only for the sake of children is gone. And I’m glad,” he added hurriedly. “Finno, you are everything I want and more, you—it’s not—”

“We could make a child, you know,” Findekáno pointed out, his spirit reaching out to soothe the fluttering in Maitimo’s heart. “I could bear one.”

Maitimo paled—then flushed deeply. “Finno!” he yelped. “No, I wouldn’t, I...”

“Oh, Russo,” Findekáno said fondly. He leaned his head on Maitimo’s shoulder. “I would like a child also. I’m offering.”

Maitimo swallowed. “But we’d have to...you know...”

“Hm...” Findekáno made a face. “You’re right. That doesn’t sound very...pleasant. But maybe...”

He stared out into the sea for a long moment. Maitimo felt his mind spinning, leaping from thought to thought; he waited patiently for his partner to find the right words. He always did.

In the sand, Tyelperinquar beckoned Itarillë over, asking where he should put a seashell in his sand castle. Itarillë frowned, then pointed to the tallest of the towers.

“If we asked Yavanna for help,” Findekáno said suddenly, “perhaps we could do it without...joining? Physically?” He tapped his chin. “No offense, Russo; objectively I know you are beautiful, but—”

“None taken,” Maitimo assured. “I don’t want to—no. What I love about you, about us, is—we don’t feel pressure to do that kind of thing. We can just be...Russo and Finno.”

Findekáno smiled at him, his happiness brighter than the Trees. On the sands, Itarillë screamed joyfully as she dumped a bucket of water on Tyelpë, half of it soaking his hair and the other half flooding his ephemeral castle. He began to wail, and both their fathers hurried over.

“As for making a fëa,” Findekáno mused, “I don’t see why that needs to involve sex. It’s just a bond, right? Well, not just. But it’s a bond on a higher level, is it not? We have a bond already.”

“We could ask Námo,” Maitimo suggested. “He would know if such a thing were possible; he knows the intricacies of fëar.”

Turukáno and Curufinwë separated their screaming children, sharing the rare kind of harried sympathy that only the united struggle of parenthood could bring to them both. Elenwë beckoned Itarillë over, scolding her gently; Curufinwë knelt beside Tyelpë and began to help him reconstruct the crumbling sand castle.

“Finno, are you...” Maitimo sighed. “I believe you when you say you want this, even bearing the child, but do you think...if it’s possible, do you think we’re ready?” He swallowed, then added, “Hardly anyone knows what our rings mean—in Alqualondë they do, but I’ve explained it to my father over and over and he still doesn’t quite get it, and my mother’s still upset we didn’t invite her to the ‘ceremony’ even though I tried to tell her there wasn’t one...”

“Who cares what anyone else thinks?” Findekáno said, sticking out his chin stubbornly, and oh, Maitimo loved him for his confidence. “We know. Our child would know. That’s what matters.”

“I love you,” Maitimo said, reaching out to let Findekáno’s braids fall through his fingers. “Alright. Let’s find out if we can do this the way we want, and then I’ll let you scold me for worrying.”

“As I should,” Findekáno exclaimed, and together they watched as Itarillë wandered back over and contritely offered Tyelpë her aid in fixing what she’d wrought.

“Twins?” Maitimo squeaked, his face redder than his hair. “Finno—I—but—”

Findekáno hugged him. “Yes,” he said, eyes budding with tears. “I didn’t even—Yavanna took the, ah, raw materials and put them inside me, and I only asked for the one, but apparently sometimes it—it splits? The child, when it’s half made? And our fëar—what we did is so strong, Námo said, that we—”

“Twins,” Maitiom repeated, and he was crying too. “Oh, Finno. We’re having twins!”

“We’re going to be fathers.” Findekáno beamed. “And we didn’t even have to have sex!”

“Once my father gets over his apoplectic rage that his new grandchildren will have the blood of Indis, he’s going to want to study you,” Maitimo warned. “This is...unprecedented. If he believes what we say about not joining, I mean.”

“I think he’ll be quite happy to have more grandchildren,” Findekáno said firmly. “And if he isn’t...”

“He will be,” Maitimo agreed, combing his fingers through Findekáno’s hundred intricate braids. “He only has one grandchild so far...though the way Írissë and Tyelko are carrying on, they might mix the blood of Indis and Míriel themselves!”

“Artanáro,” Findekáno said, exhausted but bright-eyed with love. He pressed a kiss to his son’s forehead. “For my father and yours. You know, their—” he yawned— “their mother names...Arakáno, Fëanáro...Artanáro...”

“And the little wendë?” Maitimo asked, cradling his daughter in his arms, his fëa filled with unparalleled joy. The last time he’d been this happy had been the day of his bonding with Findekáno. Or perhaps the day they made their children’s fëar.

“Mmm...Ariën,” Findekáno decided.

“Like the Maia?” Maitimo wondered, recalling the burning maiden they’d seen wandering Estë’s gardens. Maiden crowned in fire. It was apt.

“Mhm. It’s a good name. And they’re both—fiery. She has your hair.”

“They both do. And they have your eyes.” Maitimo leaned to kiss to his son’s cheek, and then his partner’s.

“So...those are my father names,” Findekáno said. “What are you calling them?” He offered up the child in his arms, and they switched, so Maitimo held Artanáro and Findekáno held Ariën.

“Velcafinwë,” Maitimo murmured. Flame Finwë. “Or—no, drat it. Atar will insist on Cantafinwë, you know, in the vein of Nelyafinwë...but he can be called both, can’t you?” He cooed.

In response, Artanáro Velcafinwë Cantafinwë opened his blue, blue eyes and spit up all over his front. Maitimo was too enchanted by the newness of fatherhood to be unhappy: it was a sign of life, of love.

“And she will be Erëamíriel,” Maitimo said softly, stroking Ariën Erëamíriel’s tuft of flaming hair. “The only girl in my father’s line. Even Tyelko insists Írissë is having a boy-child.”

“Maicafinwë, I know.” Findekáno sighed. “Írissë is waiting until he’s born to name him.”

It was almost insulting, how quickly their siblings had announced their own pregnancy so shortly after Findekáno’s. But Velco and Ariën would have a cousin their age, and Fëanáro and Nolofinwë had been forced to resolve their differences, and Maitimo had two beautiful, wonderful children and could not begrudge his brother his own (admittedly unexpected) blessing.

And what a blessing it was. Maitimo blinked back tears, overwhelmed with love: he was a father, he had two children, he had a best friend and a partner who understood him and accepted him and was with him always, and they had all this without the messiness of a “proper” marriage.

“Thank you,” he whispered. “For—for doing this with me, for loving me the way I need to be loved, for—”

Findekáno beckoned him into his bed. Maitimo sat down; he took both babies into his arms, giving Finno a chance to stretch.

“Thank you,” Findekáno murmured, leaning against him. “For letting me. For trusting me. For being who I need. We’re suited for one another, Russo...and our children are, too. They’ll be the best of friends.”

“And they’ll have cousins aplenty to play with,” Maitimo murmured. “Itarillë, Tyelpë, Maicafinwë, Artaresto when his parents come to visit...I’m sure Turno and Elenwë will have more children, and Makalaurë and Tel are thinking about it too...”

“They will be loved,” Findekáno mumbled. His eyes were drooping shut. “Mm...Russo, is it alright if I sleep? Giving birth took...a lot of energy...”

“You will be loved, too,” Maitimo whispered, rising and pressing a kiss to his bonded’s forehead. “Take the time you need. I’ll care for the children. And don’t worry, they won’t be too much...if they are, I have six brothers to hand them off to. Well, eight, I suppose, and a sister, if we count your family, not to mention our parents...”

“Mm. Love you,” Findekáno murmured, settling into his covers.

Maitimo left him to his slumber, cradling their children in his arms, and returned to their family, ready to announce the babies’ names. A few years prior, he would have despaired at the thought of finding such happiness, but now...

He knew he was loved, too, in every way it counted.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
My version of Aredhel/Celegorm is very much a FWB situation - they're also aro, though not ace :)

 

Notes on names:
Velcafinwë = flame Finwë
Cantafinwë = fourth Finwë (going with the amusing headcanon that Fëanor insists Nelyo's first child will be the Fourth just like he's the Third)
Artanáro = high flame (canon ataressë for Gil-galad)

Ariën = maiden of sunlight, BUT this AU has no Sun, so I’m translating it instead as ‘maiden crowned in fire’ hence the ë appearing in other names like Silmariën
Erëamíriel = lone/only Míriel
(in Beleriand she would become Erien, a combo of the two names, and a discarded concept for a daughter of Fingon! I’ve recently come up with a few other ideas for versions of her, so she might pop up again)

Maicafinwë = sharp Finwë (this is Maeglin if he were a Fëanorian! My Quenya translation of Maeglin is Maicatinwë, and it was only one letter off, so an easy leap of logic)
Tel = ThatFeanorian’s OC for Maglor’s husband - I wrote the original fic for Fey, this is a nod to that <3

 

Thanks for reading, and please comment if you enjoyed!
You can find me on tumblr @arofili, and check out the Aspec Arda Week blog too!