TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
For Lack of a Better Word	Khornenatter	2023-06-18	2023-06-18	1,353	1/1	4	59	11	442

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
General Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Fëanor | Curufinwë & Maedhros | Maitimo	Fëanor | Curufinwë, Maedhros | Maitimo, Celegorm | Turcafinwë, Nerdanel (Tolkien)	Father-Son Relationship, Quenya Names, Celegorm actually being innocent for once, Good Older Sibling Maedhros (Tolkien)

SUMMARY
On behalf of young Tyelkormo’s sanity a desperate request is taken to the inventor of the dictionary

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
For Lack of a Better Word


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
Little Quenya guide (at least to how I used it here):

atar - father
atto - dad
ammë - mother
onóna/ónoni - twin/twins
istyar/istyari - scholar/scholars


CHAPTER 1
Just as Fëanáro sat down to enjoy the quiet of having completed five bedtime routines he heard a knock at the door of his study. He contemplated not responding, but Nerdanel was already resting so the alternatives for parental support were limited. Thus he got up again and opened the door to discover his eldest. What a relief, his wish for a calm night could persist. He nodded towards his desk, then walked back to sit down himself. Maitimo entered carefully (as he was engaged a bitter feud with any and all door frames due to his ever-increasing height) and closed the door, then sat down on a chair besides his father and let his gaze wander around the books and scriptures.
“Is there anything I can do for you?” Fëanáro asked after a moment, he didn’t like the serious look on the face of his son.

“Atar, I need you to invent a new word,” Maitimo requested in a collected way, as if he were presenting a petition to his grandfather’s council.

When Fëanáro invented Tengwar, Maitimo and Makalaurë used to sit in his study with him – Maitimo even sat in the same chair right now – and asked him to invent words for anything their child-minds would come up with, which he then wrote down into an extra book. A seperate dictionary for the fantasies of his children. It made for an enjoyable pastime but Maitimo had long grown out of it.
“Wouldn’t it be more appropriate to play this with your younger brothers?” he gently inquired and Maitimo shook his head, maintaining this unsettling seriousness.

“It’s not a game, we need a word for the kind of pregnancy ammë has and you already invented Tengwar and the dictionary. Tyelko is excited about our new siblings but the way he talks about them makes ammë upset,” he explained increasingly exasperated. “I’ve been trying for a month now to get him to understand ammë is not having a litter!”

This was the most innocent way Tyelkormo has ever given him a headache, Fëanáro had to admit. He did notice Nerdanel tiring more often, but had attributed this to her nurturing two children at the same time. He did also notice Tyelkormo’s growing distress and attributed it to him being frustrated with his studies. He should have just asked Nerdanel and Tyelkormo when he started to notice … instead, Maitimo had to seek him out and explain to him that it was currently not possible to refer to Nerdanel’s pregnancy without using animal-related vocabulary! No wonder she was so exhausted and upset!
“I am sorry, my dear Maitimo. I failed to notice this and thus made you struggle with a problem that shouldn’t have been yours to solve. And for weeks, too!” Fëanáro admitted as he finally grasped the scope of this problem. “Do you … want to help me find a new word?”

Maitimo smiled and nodded, then shuffled to shove the chair closer to the desk while Fëanáro got paper, quill and ink ready. Just like he used to sit with him as an elfling, admiring his atto smithing words.

“So it can’t be a word already used to refer to animals and Oromë said he doesn’t care what word it is: I just have to write him a message once it exists for him to start using it,” Maitimo rattled down excitedly. “Therefore it should put emphasis on the speaker talking about an elven pregnancy and elflings as subject. As an aspect of dignity?”

Dutifully the father wrote down this list of conditions and suggestions. Wait, Maitimo had asked the Vala Oromë for help before consulting him? Tyelkormo really had to be inconsolable for Maitimo to reach his wits’ end.
“You asked Oromë for help on this?,” he asked loudly.

Maitimo nodded hesitantly.
“Well, Tyelko spends a lot of time with Oromë and his Hunt, and that’s where he picked up a lot of his … procreation-related vocabulary. And he listens well to him! So I asked him if he could help me explain this to Tyelko. As I said, the answer was on the lines of agreeing after the vocabulary problem in itself is solved, since there really is a lack of words available to clear this up for Tyelko,” he explained carefully and Fëanáro reached out to ruffle his son’s hair. “Atar!”

“Look at you, even reaching out to a Vala to help your little brother! I’m proud of your bravery, even if I’m a bit heartbroken you only consult me after weeks of struggle,” he praised and lightly tipped his quill on the waiting paper. “So, how do we go about rescuing Tyelkormo’s world and your ammë’s dignity?”

Nerdanel was thoroughly exhausted even though she had only just finished breakfast! Fëanáro was nowhere to be seen, leaving her to deal with Tyelkormo, Carnistir and Atarinkë alone. Makalaurë did help though, even more so than usual since Maitimo skipped breakfast. When everyone was settled under Makalaurë’s supervision, she set out to look after her oldest since he wasn’t in the habit to sleep this late. When she knocked at his door and peaked into his room, she found it abandoned only to increase her worries. When she found Fëanáro he better had a very, very good reason to have abandoned his duties, allowing the oldest to vanish and the young ones to roam freely in the morning. Weirdly his forge was abandoned as well, ruling out the most probable reason for Fëanáro’s disappearance. Next she looked in his study, where the riddle of her oldest’s whereabouts was solved as well.

“Ah Nerdanel dearest, we finally have a solution!” her husband cried out proudly and Maitimo nodded enthusiastically. Multiple sheets laid on the desk in no discernible order, filled with words and crossed-out words in no discernible order, next to an empty pot of ink as well as an apparently freshly opened full one. Both of them had ink smears staining their hands and faces. Somehow there were also stains as if there had been a rain of ink happening, covering the desk and their clothes. Maitimo was wearing his night robes, Fëanáro wore the same clothes as yesterday.

“Boys, were you in here the whole night?” she asked slowly. “Did you sleep at all?”

To this, Maitimo yawned and turned to look at the window as if to find out the time of day.
“But dear, this is important!” Náro insisted, accompanied by grand gestures and causing the quill to send ink droplets flying. Well, there was the explanation for the two of them looking like they got caught up in an inky rainstorm. Those gowns would never be clean again.

“Then do tell me, what is so important for you to forgo sleep, breakfast and supervising the young ones?” Nerdanel asked and rubbed her eyes.

Maitimo silently mouthed the word “breakfast” while Fëanáro finally put the quill down and pulled up one of the scribbled sheets of paper.
“A word for siblings of same conception!” he declared. “They shall be ónoni as they are siblings together even before birth!”

“I need to write the letter to Oromë!” Maitimo announced and started rummaging for an unused sheet of paper.

“Or maybe my eager istyari would like to sleep before handling more paperwork?” Nerdanel kindly offered. “You wouldn’t risk writing an incoherent message to a Vala due to sleep deprivation, would you? Go wash up, change into less inky night robes and sleep, Maitimo. And Náro dear, would you mind telling the young ones before resting?”
She entered the study and gave her husband an appreciative kiss on the forehead as Maitimo got up to leave. Knowing this matter taken care of did fill her with relief and eased her into forgiving them for worrying her.

Thump “Ow!”

They turned around to find Maitimo rubbing his forehead, obviously having forgotten to duck in the door-frame. She chuckled and stepped up to her son, laid her hand on his forearm to signal him to lower his head towards her and gently kissed his forehead. Then she sent both of them on their respective ways.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Hi, first work here so please be kind :)

Additional hc featured here: It's not Feanor who attends Tyelko's parent-vala-meetings. He doesn't quite notice the co-parenting setup Maitimo and Oromë have, he's just glad there's anyone Tyelko actually listens to