TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Zirân	ChildOfGondorr	2022-09-04	2022-09-24	9,710	5/5	28	166	17	3,777

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Teen And Up Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power (TV 2022), The Lord of the Rings - All Media Types

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Elrond Peredhel/Original Female Character(s)	Elrond Peredhel, Original Female Character(s)	Second Age (Tolkien), Númenor, Lindon (Tolkien), Elf/Human Relationship(s), Fluff, Random & Short, Young Elrond Peredhel, Love at First Sight, Sindarin, Quenya, Adûnaic (Tolkien), Light Angst

SUMMARY
"They say Elves can only fall in love once, is that true?"

I watched the first two episodes of Rings of Power and instantly fell in love with young Elrond. So here I am, writing a fic about him!

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Wolf


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
This whole fic is very random and not very planned so it will probably be quite short but we do love short stories!

All the translation for the Adûnaic/Quenya/Sindarin is at the end!

btw the title means "beloved" in Adûnaic :)


CHAPTER 1
Leaves and branches cracked beneath Azruphêl’s bare feet as she was fleeing from a grey shadow. Her hands were holding up what was left of her skirts and her hair was entangled with some pieces of greenery and wood. She didn’t have time to take it off. Otherwise the wolves would pick her scent and chase her down once again. 

They were near, she could hear them howl and gallop together. She could climb a tree, but she would be stuck here for the night, even maybe more, and she was hungry. She couldn’t risk another day without eating. She was frail and weak, she could easily die in her sleep. Well, she was pretty sure she would. 

She lost her attention to her surroundings for a second, thinking about her own death more than her next step, and she tripped on a root, finishing her useless race in the wet soil. But this time, it was not without a cost. The beating pain in her ankle meant only one thing, she hurt herself once more.

“Ugh, minal!” She groaned, sitting up and looking at her foot, wiping the dirt from her face. She cut herself, and her ankle didn’t look good at all. She poked her sore skin, which created a weird heating pain that sent her head back. She sucked on air and swore again. How foolish she was to have tripped on the only root that was out of the ground. 

The loud howl of a wolf forced her to stand again. She was holding herself up with a tree and tried to get herself to hop on one foot. It would be laborious, but she didn’t have a choice. It was either this or getting eaten by those damned beasts. 

But the smell of her blood was greater than her will. Soon, she heard the paws of the wolves beating against the ground, sending the fallen leaves flying everywhere. Azruphêl felt her heart accelerate as she tried to hop faster. She knew she was doomed, but she still tried to flee. She wanted to live, she wanted to see the sun rise once again, she wanted to feel the warmth of its rays on her skin, she didn’t want to die there, during a cloudy and cold day in the middle of an unknown forest. 

She fell once again, and the force of the shock of her arms and face against hard soil and small pebbles tore a high pitched squeal from her throat. She sat up and saw it. She saw one of the wolves galloping towards her, its jowls foaming with hunger and the will to hunt for its life. She was done. 

She forced her eyes shut, a voiceless tear running down her cheek, so she couldn’t see when it would arrive. She couldn’t scream for help, it would just die down between two trees, no one would hear her.

But after a few seconds, nothing happened. The noise of the paws stopped, even. But she didn’t dare open her eyes, as if she would find the wolf standing there, waiting for her to do so, so it could kill her and she’d be aware. So she could see its fangs penetrating her flesh as well as feeling it.

“Anda lenda?” A voice said. It certainly wasn’t a wolf. Wolves didn’t speak, and they even less spoke Quenya. Azruphêl knew it was Quenya from the sound of it, but she didn’t actually speak it and had no idea of what he had just said.

She opened her eyes to find the wolf indeed in front of her, but with an arrow piercing its jugular. It had just been killed. She looked to her side to see the feet of a black horse. She gazed up and her interlocutor was sitting on it, holding the reins in one hand, a beautiful longbow in the other. Azruphêl has never seen the likes of it before. He couldn’t be a human, he was too fair, too beautiful. 

He was very beautiful. Almost too pretty to be real. It was a weird feeling for the woman. Her heart was beating even faster than when she was chased, and she was suddenly not hungry anymore. She was pretty sure her jaw would have dropped open if she wasn’t aware of it.

“Are you an Elf?” She asked with a breathless voice after a few seconds of just staring at him, still sitting on the ground. The scent of torn flesh came into her nostrils, causing her to slightly back away from the wolf. 

“What are you doing here by yourself?” He asked with a soft voice, his grey eyes scanning her from head to toe. He was definitely an Elf. He had those cute pointy ears and this pale skin that she was sure could glow if put in direct sunlight.

People of his kin had never talked to her before. They just walked or rode past her without even acknowledging her. She straightened as much as she could and shrugged.

“I ran from the wolves.” She simply answered, pointing her chin to the carcass in front of her. “And you saved me… Why?” 

“I saw you at this wolf’s mercy. Leaving someone to die is not in my values.” He marked a pause, his gaze still sweeping her entire body as if he was trying to guess why she was there. “But…” He added after a small silence. “I must ask, where are you from? I have never seen you before, and I would have remembered your face.” 

“Rómenna.” She simply answered, the only saying of her home city hurting her heart. The Elf’s face weirdly fell, which startled her. Why would he react so much?

“Númenor?” He frowned. “Why are you here, in Middle-Earth?” 

“That’s a long story, and I don’t care enough to tell it.” She sharply answered, grabbing the lowest branch of the nearest tree to hoist herself up. “Thank you for saving me, though, I appreciate it.” She grunted, as she had to pull her whole weight with the strength of a single hand, but she eventually got back up. She wasn’t that weak.

“You are hurt.” He pointed out as she was trying to hop away. 

“Sâibeth-mâ ni-yô.” She sighed, stopping and turning around to face him, pretty sure he wouldn’t understand her as well as she didn’t understand him when he spoke Quenya. “Ki-yadahê êphalak.”  

“Nêg-nad anha nênô.” He answered with a cute Elvish accent. It totally startled Azruphêl, whose cheeks immediately flushed. She looked down at her foot hovering above the ground, which made the Elf laugh. 

“How do you-” She started, trailing off in the middle of her sentence. She looked at him as he dismounted his horse, leaving it without even tying it somewhere. 

Now that he was standing, she could see that he was taller than her, and that his immaculate blue garments were as long as he was standing. 

“I study many languages.” He said, answering her previous half-finished question. “Adûnaic is one of them.” He marked another pause. “I can see you haven’t seen a proper dinner in some time. I would be glad to give you one.” 

“Really?” She immediately said with stars in her eyes. She suddenly felt better and worse at the same time: better about her life situation, and worse about that Elf. Something about him was so special, she couldn’t quite place it. Maybe it was just how all Elves felt.

Her father taught her to not trust strangers, but he also died of hunger, so it didn’t really matter anymore, and she didn’t want to end up like him. On top of that, this Elf was really pretty, he couldn’t possibly do wrong. 

Could he? 

“First, you must tell me your name.” He smiled, reaching out to grab his horse’s reins. 

“Why would you need my name?” She smiled back as he approached his mount to help her on. 

“I would advise not to tease, my lady.” He chuckled. “Or I might call you Ñauriel myself.”

“Ñauriel?” She repeated, tilting her head to the side, a slight smile embellishing her face. “What does that mean?” 

“Daughter of the wolf.” He whispered, mounting his horse. 

“My name’s Azruphêl.” She laughed, grabbing the hand he was giving her to help her on. His hand was firm and of a warmth she didn’t know she had long missed. The movement of mounting the tall horse hurted her more than anything, but she bit the skin on the inside of her cheek and didn’t say anything.

She hesitated for a second, her arms floating between her and him. She was too afraid to touch an Elf like that. What if they hated physical touch so much that he would kick her off his horse as soon as she touched him? 

“Azruphêl, my name is Elrond.” He said with a smile she couldn’t see as he was taking her hands to wrap them around his waist. She mechanically grabbed onto the fabric of his cape, and he straightened, causing her chest to be painfully close to his back. 

With a kick of his heels, the horse galloped towards a place Azruphêl didn’t know. For a moment the only thing she looked at was Elrond’s hair. They seemed so soft and smelt so sweet, she wanted to plunge her face in it, but again, she didn’t know anything about the Elves’ customs. Maybe it was something highly disrespectful, to touch one’s hair. 

…

The more they rode through the forest, the more she was feeling bad. Maybe it was the hunger, the fatigue, the run she had earlier, or everything at the same time, but she ended up passing out as soon as they were out of the woods. 

Elrond almost had a heart attack when he felt her hands slip away from his waist. He pulled the reins so fast that he nearly fell from his horse as well when he stopped. 

He immediately dismounted and rushed to Azruphêl’s limp body.

“Rhaich.” He let out between clenched teeth, kneeling next to her. Her body was still warm, and she was still breathing, but she was covered with mud and leaves. He gently picked her up and hoisted her up back on his horse, this time sitting her body in front of him so she could hold her until she would regain consciousness. 

When his horse started trotting, he actually had to hold her tighter against him so that she wouldn’t slide off again. Her head was tilted backwards, pressing against his chest, and her eyes were gently closed, her mouth slightly opened. It would seem like she was simply sleeping. Wasn’t she, really? Maybe she just passed out from exhaustion. 

Even if she was covered in dirt, he found her quite beautiful. He had thought of it too, at first. When he saw her, something in her that he had never encountered before hit him right in the heart. Even if he did intend to save her at first, he didn’t think he would be taking her back to Lindon after seeing her kind face and long hair.

He lowered his chin so that it would slightly touch the line of her hair. It was initially to get himself more comfortable, but even this light contact did something to him. He quite brushed it off, as it wasn’t his priority at the moment. He had to get her back to Lindon as soon as possible. Maybe she didn’t have only one injury and she was dying, one never knew.

So he held her, and they galloped to the city.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
I hope you enjoyed that first chapter, like I said it's not planned, so not very well made but well we're not really here for quality innit...

Here's all the translation you need (I get them on realelvish.net and tecendil.com):

minal (Adûnaic) - heavens
anda lenda? (Quenya) - long journey?
Sâibeth-mâ ni-yô (Adûnaic) - yes/I agree
Ki-yadahê êphalak (Adûnaic) - be gone from my sight
Nêg-nad anha nênô (Adûnaic) - after we finish
Rhaich (Sindarin) - literally "curses" and used as a curse


CHAPTER 2 TITLE
Questions


CHAPTER 2 INITIAL NOTES
Azruphêl opened her eyes to dazzling light.


CHAPTER 2
Azruphêl opened her eyes to dazzling light. She immediately groaned in annoyance and pain, squinting at a point that she couldn’t see what was in front of her. At first, she thought she had woken up on the Sun, or just in front of a lit fireplace. But she was in a bed. In a very comfortable one, though. She had never slept in something that soft and warm, even when she was still in Rómenna, in her childhood home.

She sat up and looked around. The room was quite big but also very empty. There was only a bed and a small bedside table with her garments neatly folded on it and a small jug full of clean water beside. There were a lot of windows too. But there wasn’t any glass to separate the inside from the outside, which was a tad disturbing in the beginning. 

But at least, she could perfectly see what was going on outside. From where she was sitting, everything looked so bright and golden it might have been a dream after all. 

Well, it would’ve been a dream if her head and feet weren’t hurting that much. She tossed the heavy blanket away from her only to see that she was wearing a light yellow fabric dress, and that her right ankle was bandaged. She was clean, too. Very clean. And her hair was combed, no branches nor leaves were still entangled in it. It was quite agreeable. 

Nonetheless, she was still so hungry that her whole existence was hurting. 

She stood up, taking a few seconds holding herself up with the bedside table so she wouldn’t immediately come a cropper and twist her other ankle. Then, after chugging half of the water at her disposal, she carefully limped outside. The building she had slept in was built in a forest of golden trees among other similar, yet bigger buildings. It was amazing to watch, everything was so beautiful and shiny. 

She roamed around for a bit, looking everywhere to not miss any of the details of the place. But also, she was trying to find someone. Well, she wasn’t trying to find anybody, she wanted to see Elrond, that beautiful Elf who saved her… Was it the day before? She didn’t know how long she had slept. It didn’t matter anyway, it wasn’t like she had something else to do. 

Well, speak of the devil and he shall appear. Elrond arrived towards her with a bowl in hand and an agreeably surprised face. 

“At last.” He smiled. “You’re awake.”

“I have never slept in a more beautiful place.” She said, still astonished by the beauty of the place, but looking at only him. He matched the beauty of the place perfectly.

“I brought you some fruits, I figured you might be hungry.” 

Her eyes went wide as he handed her the bowl he was holding. There were strawberries and figs and pears so perfectly ripe she could cry. She carefully yet quite quickly took a pear from the batch and bit half of it without a question. 

“Mmmh, thank you so much.” She moaned, her mouth full. She wanted to jump in his arms and kiss him, but she was no savage, she still had some manners. 

Elrond made her sit, her back against a tree, so she could continue eating without hurting her foot, and he watched her devour the whole bowl. Well, he did take one strawberry, but the rest, she ate it all. Now, he had to ask her some questions. He had to know why she was wandering alone in a forest when she was from Númenor. He needed to know if her people were in any danger, or if she was a danger herself. Even if not her kin, Men were known to be on Morgoth’s side. She could be one of his last followers. Dúnedain had long lives, it could even be possible. 

“Are you feeling better?” He gently said as he sat beside her, his hand brushing through the short grass between them. 

“A good night of sleep and those fruits really perked me up.” She stated, wiping the reddish juice from the corner of her mouth. 

“Yesterday you told me that the reason you are in Middle-Earth is a long story you care not enough to tell.” 

“Great memory.” She simply answered, knowing that he would inevitably ask her to develop on her past. She didn’t really blame him, she wouldn’t trust a stranger found in the forest as well. 

“You do not trust me, do you?” She didn’t answer. “If I wanted to kill you, I would have left you for dead, and you wouldn’t be eating those fruits right now.” He added, trying to gain her trust in some way.

But he was right. Azruphêl knew it.

“I fled Númenor with my father, years ago.” She muttered, finishing the last fig, leaving the now empty bowl on her lap. She looked down at Elrond’s hand playing with the grass so close to her thigh for a second and gazed up at his eyes. “He was against the King, against the system, I guess. I never understood why we left. I just knew he was in big trouble for speaking his mind against everyone in the kingdom.” 

Elrond was carefully looking at her, scanning every feature of her face as she was quietly speaking. And she was now really focusing on his hand, on his fingers mindlessly twirling around the strands of green lawn.

“We sailed to Middle-Earth on his fishing vessel.” She continued. “Father made me promises of a great life with loads of land and happiness. I was but a child, and I believed him. But soon, I figured that it would never be like he promised. We were homeless, travelling from city to city, and for many years we were nothing but hungry and miserable.”

She marked a pause, then stopped talking at all. Elrond looked up at her face to find a single tear falling from her eye. Without really thinking about it, he reached out to wipe it from her cheek with a finger. The contact totally startled Azruphêl, who slightly backed away as a reflex. But feeling his warm hand on her face still hurt her deep in the chest, and her face turned red in a second. 

“My apologies.” He quickly said, his own cheeks flushing with a light rose, as he had evidently noticed her flinching.

“It’s alright.” She muttered, wishing she hadn’t moved. “I’m not used to physical contact, that's all.” She quietly sighed, using her own hand to wipe the salty liquid from her face.

“And, where is your father now, if I may?” He carefully asked when he was sure she wouldn’t be crying anymore. 

“I burnt his body near the mountains years ago.” She sharply answered, staring at her own fingers scratching skin around her nails. Speaking about it didn’t hurt her that much. Not anymore. Not that she actually spoke about it before. In fact, she just realised that she was okay with speaking about her father. 

Elrond slightly shifted his body towards her, looking at her face with a compassionate look. 

“I am sorry.” He simply said. “I will not bother you with this anymore.” 

She didn’t answer right away, as they were both looking at each other. It was a weird feeling, really, for the both of them. Neither wanted to look away, nor say anything. 

Azruphêl had never felt like that before. She wanted everything from him and nothing at the same time. Even if he had just interrogated her, most likely to be sure if she wasn’t dangerous and made her speak about things she wished she could forget, she was happy and felt safe. 

Why was she happy? It didn’t matter. She needed to talk to him for as long as possible so that he wouldn’t leave. She wanted him to be close to her. 

“Then…” She started, a slight smile on her face. “May I bother you in return?” 

“Why of course.” He answered, tilting his head to the side with a downward smile on his lips.

“Tell me more about you. Do you have any siblings? What is your occupation? Are you married?” 

He chuckled at the last question but quickly regained his seriousness. “I had a twin brother, Elros, he chose mortality.” He marked a pause and slightly smiled when he saw Azruphêl’s face drop. “You need not worry, Azruphêl. It was his choice and I am not sad about it… About my occupation,” he continued with a proud voice. “I am the High King’s speech-writer and herald.”

“Are you, really?” She had no idea he was that important. “You write speeches for your king?” She was impressed, really.

“I do, yes.” He chuckled. 

“Could I read one of ‘em? I don’t want you to get in trouble, though.” She immediately added, fearing they might be confidential.

“It’s alright, I keep the manuscripts.” He marked a weirdly long pause. “And well, for your last question, I’m not married.”

His answer sent a rush of adrenaline in Azruphêl’s chest. It was so silly, and she hardly knew him, but she was already feeling like he was an entire part of her life. 

But he probably didn’t feel the same, anyway. She would leave as soon as she was better so that she wouldn’t be so hurt. She was still young, but old enough to know that unreciprocal love hurt even worse than physical injuries. 

“Not married?” She repeated, trying to play cool. 

“I’m waiting for the right person.” He muttered, almost whispering. “Plus, I’m still young.” 

“Of course.” She answered. 

“And what about you?” He said, suddenly louder. 

“Well, I don’t have any siblings, any occupation other than surviving, I guess, and I’m obviously not married as well.”

“Have you ever dreamt about it?” 

“I’m sorry?” She looked at him, a tad confused. 

“Do you want to marry, one day?” He rephrased.

“Yes- I mean, why not?” 

“Then, I hope you will find the person who can take care of you for the rest of your lives.” He smiled, standing up. His words slightly upset her, but she wouldn’t say anything about it. 

“I would advise you not to walk too much, your ankle is still weak.” He added.

“Of course, Sir herald.” She chuckled, handing him his bowl before taking his hand in order to get back up. His hand was even warmer, and he didn’t let go of her immediately, so she had the time to perfectly feel it, which created an even greater ache in her stomach. It wasn’t even disagreeable, it was this kind of pleasurable pain everyone could feel if with the right person.


CHAPTER 2 FINAL NOTES
I can't already write romance, I feel the need to add a bit of backstory, but patience! They'll come at it pretty quickly!

Please don't mind how poorly this is written!! :(


CHAPTER 3 TITLE
Words Of Love


CHAPTER 3 INITIAL NOTES
“I like this place.” Azruphêl smiled, following Elrond to a clearing in the middle of the golden forest of Lindon.


CHAPTER 3
“I like this place.” Azruphêl smiled, following Elrond to a clearing in the middle of the golden forest of Lindon. “It seems peaceful enough to write kingslike speeches.”

“Nobody bothers me when I come here.” He said, letting go of her arm, since he was holding her to help her walk. 

Her limp wasn’t as bad as it was two weeks before, but it was still there, and walking still hurt her. She went and sat on the only tree present in the clearing. It had grown in a way that a part of its trunk was horizontal, so she could sit directly on it. 

The day was beautiful. The Sun was shining overhead, but its rays weren’t strong enough to be actually disagreeable. Azruphêl smiled and tilted her head up, closing her eyes, as Elrond sat on her right. 

He opened the piece of parchment he had taken with him and handed her to his friend. Was she his friend? He hoped she was. Even if he was definitely having feelings for her, he was fine if she was at least his friend. 

Azruphêl took the parchment and looked at the meticulously written script written on it. She couldn’t actually read anything, since she couldn’t read Quenya nor Tengwar, but it was really visually pretty. 

“What’s this about?” She asked, looking at Elrond who had his head tilted to the side so he could read his own writings. He was almost touching her shoulder when he leant in even more. 

“This was a speech for the reward of old soldiers.” He said, tracing the lines with a finger to read it and not say any idiocies. “I wrote it… I think, maybe sixty years ago.”

“Woah, I wasn’t even born.” She chuckled, following his finger with her eyes. “What does this mean?” She asked, stopping his hand on a word by putting her own beside. 

“Aimanen.” He read. “It means… However.” 

“Such a fancy word meaning however.” She chuckled. “I was hoping for something like love, or gold.” 

He took his quill and smoothly scratched two distinct words in Tengwar letters at the bottom of the parchment. He was so careful and gentle with the quill that Azruphêl could barely feel it on her thigh under the paper. He slowly pointed at the first word. 

“Laurë. This means gold.” He stated, swiping his finger through the word. It didn’t make any sense to her, but she still listened. She looked up at his face as he was looking down, and they were so close he could feel her breath on his neck. 

He briefly gazed up to meet her eyes, which sent adrenaline down both of their stomachs as they were way too close. Azruphêl quickly lost herself in his grey eyes, her heart quickening to a point where she was almost sure they could hear it if there weren’t birds singing around or the wind whistling through the leaves. 

Her head seemed to move on her own, urging her to kiss him. She licked her lips as Elrond literally looked down at it. Then, she quickly turned her head, gazing back at the piece of parchment. She was most likely misunderstanding the signals. 

“So, I believe this is the word for love?” She said, pointing at the second word he had written. Her voice sounded a bit weird, and if he noticed, he didn’t say anything about it. 

“Yes.” He cleared his throat, feeling the flush come up in his face. He had really thought for a second that she would make a move. He would have done it, really, if she hadn’t looked away. 

“Melmë.” He read, licking his lips. “Melmë olessë illumë…” He added after a silence, almost whispering. 

“What does that mean?” 

“Love is with you, always.”

“You are a romantic, Sir herald.” She grinned, tilting her head to the side.

He chuckled, looking down. “Not with everyone.” 

His sentence echoed in Azruphêl’s mind, even louder and harder than the feeling of her heart pounding in her chest, begging her to be closer to him, begging her to bond with him. 

Her hands were both resting on their sides, and the girl didn’t hesitate a second before slightly moving her little finger in order to be touching his hand. It wasn’t much, but it sent butterflies down her stomach. 

Elrond, on the other side, seemed more startled than anything. He looked down at her hand as if to be sure she was really touching him. She was about to move when he looked up at her with a gaze that pierced her whole, sending visible shivers down her spine.

“Are you really cold enough to shiver?” He chuckled, taking her whole hand as a reflex. “You sure have freezing hands.” He covered hers with his other one, using warming her up as an excuse to be closer.

“In that case, only my hands are cold.” She muttered on a whim, avoiding his gaze. 

She couldn’t fathom how his hands could be that warm. Or maybe she was the one who always had cold ones, and it wouldn’t even be a surprise to her. 

As he didn’t answer, she looked back at his face. Lord was he close. And her head obviously wanted to kiss him again. But, she apparently wasn’t the only one with this need, given how Elrond’s eyes were slowly moving back and forth from her eyes to her lips. She lightly chuckled and tilted her head to the side, gazing down at his lips as well, which aggravated her heartbeat and the butterflies banging in her ribcage. 

“May I… Kiss you?” He suddenly whispered, his eyes fluttering up to meet hers in a moment of total recklessness.

She kind of sat there for a few seconds, her brain wasn’t processing his words. 

“I mean,” he cleared his throat, visibly panicking. “It is okay if you don’t want to, I-”

She interrupted him by putting a hand on his cheek and kissing him as quickly as she could. It had been years since she hadn’t kissed someone, and, to be honest, she had quite forgotten the feeling. But… This time, the feeling was even stronger than before.

Elrond couldn’t be more startled, and it took him a moment to gather himself as the only thing he was really feeling was her soft lips pressed against his, and a pleasant warmth in his stomach. He turned his body towards her, putting a hand on her neck, resting his thumb on her cheek while softly kissing back. 

After less than five seconds, they both suddenly pulled away, looking at each other with bright scarlet faces. Azruphêl nervously chuckled, resting a hand on her own neck. 

“I am sorry.” Elrond began, muttering. “I should have been-”

“Bithî ‘nki ya-nam bawâb.” She interrupted with a smile on her face. 

And she kissed him again. This time was harder, more passionate. He let out a small cry of surprise before standing up and grabbing her face with both of his hands, nestling himself between her legs. She rested her hands on his waist, wrapping her legs around his. 

For a few seconds, Azruphêl felt like there were only the two of them in the world. She tilted her head to the side and pressed herself closer to him. She was pretty sure he could feel her heartbeat going nuts as well as she could feel his against her chest.

She slightly opened her mouth to let his tongue pass inside of her as she lightly smiled against his lips. 

Someone clearing their throat startled the both of them, and Azruphêl would have fallen backwards if Elrond didn’t shift his hands from her face to her waist as he turned around. 

“Lady Avalda!” He muttered, choking back a cough and letting go of Azruphêl when he was sure she wouldn’t fall over. “I did not expect you here…” 

The she-Elf gazed at the woman who just sat there, her feet swinging in the air and her face still as red as it was before. 

“Herald Elrond.” She said, looking back at him. “The High King is asking for you.”

“Oh, of course.” He looked at Azruphêl who was still sitting, as she still couldn’t really walk properly. He gazed at the two women back and forth, then sighed. 

“Though, I cannot let Lady Azruphêl here on her own, she is still wounded.” He finally said to Avalda. 

The way he called her Lady Azruphêl gave her butterflies, and she tried her best to hide it.

“You need not worry, Elrond.” She said. “I can make my way back.” 

“I would rather not, you could hurt yourself.” He insisted. “Avalda, may you…?”

“Of course.” She calmly nodded. “You can go at ease.” 

“All right.” He bowed his head at the Elf-maid before turning towards Azruphêl, hesitating for a second. 

She rolled his parchment and handed it to him. When he grabbed it, she didn’t let go and tugged on it so he could come closer to her. As soon as he came to range she kissed him on the cheek.

“Harya alasse, tercáno herdir.” She whispered to his ear, which made him chuckle. 

“Ki-kaldahê.” He answered as she let go of the parchment and started to speed walk away.

“Let me help you up.” Avalda said with a soft voice as soon as Elrond was out of their view. “I will not speak of what I saw.” 

“Oh, it’s alright.” She sighed, taking her hand to stand up. “‘Tis but a silly thing.” 

“For many years I have known Elrond. Believe me, if you got that far, it isn’t silly, not at all.” 

Azruphêl looked at the Elf as if she had just told her the most surprising thing that could be possibly told. 

“I hope you aren’t playing with him.” Avalda added before marking a pause as they were starting to walk back to the city. “Are you? Be honest.” 

“No. And I am honest… Númenórean’s word.” 

“Is the blood of Númenor supposed to make you more honest?” She sounded a tad amused, which relaxed Azruphêl. 

“No, but I don’t see why I would be lying.” There was silence for a few seconds as they entered the golden forest. “I- well, I think I may be a bit in love. But don’t say that to him!” 

“Elf’s word.” She chuckled.


CHAPTER 3 FINAL NOTES
here's the translations you need!

Bithî ‘nki ya-nam bawâb (Adûnaic) - wind pours from your mouth
Harya alasse (Quenya) - have fun
tercáno (Quenya) - herald
herdir (Quenya) - master
Ki-kaldahê (Adûnaic) - have fun


CHAPTER 4 TITLE
Farewell Kiss


CHAPTER 4 INITIAL NOTES
It had been nearly six weeks since he found her in the forest, and her foot was now completely healed, but she didn’t want to leave.


CHAPTER 4
“Namárië.” Azruphêl repeated. “Have I pronounced it correctly?” 

“You might as well just point your ears up and people are going to start believing you are an Elf.” Elrond smiled. 

It had been nearly six weeks since he found her in the forest, and her foot was now completely healed, but she didn’t want to leave. She knew she would have to, eventually. She couldn’t stay there forever and for free. She needed to adapt, or to leave. Unfortunately, leaving was the best option, and the easiest one. She was but a Human in a world of Elves after all, she didn’t belong there, where everything and everyone was undying. And, she knew it, the sooner she would be leaving, the better it would be for everyone. 

But the more she stayed with Elrond, the more she was certain she was in love with him. And he was, too. That was the problem. Azruphêl could deal with breaking her own heart, but she couldn’t break the heart of the person she loved along with it. 

But for now, she decided not to think about it and to enjoy Elrond the best she could. It was hard, since she had to leave as soon as she could, but she needed to do it, for her own sanity. But, also for her sanity, she had to leave right now. Or leaving later would drive her crazy as well.

At the moment, they were both sitting on the tree in the clearing. Elrond was writing a speech and Azruphêl was just there, sometimes speaking to him, sometimes just listening to the birds, but most of the time watching him scratch nonsense on a piece of parchment with an oddly beautiful gracefulness. 

“You need not flatter me, you know.” She chuckled, turning so that her back could rest on his side. She rested her head on his shoulder and let him warp his right arm around her. She started to play with the fabric of his green sleeve while he was repeating what he had just written in Quenya. She picked up some of the words, but mostly didn’t understand anything.

“I am not saying it to flatter you, I say it because I believe it is true.” He said when he finished reading over. His fingers were mindlessly twirling around a few strands of her untied hair, which she found adorable.

There was a long silence where they were both lost in their thoughts. Azruphêl was listening to the sound of Elrond’s quill against the paper along with the chants of the birds around. She quickly got bored of his sleeve and moved to his hand. She took it and looked at it, intertwining her fingers between his, scanning every mark and crevice on his skin, and how it contrasted with her own flesh.

“I will soon leave.” She suddenly let out, and Elrond’s hand clenched on her fingers. The scratching of his quill stopped, and she felt his head turn towards her. 

“What?” He sounded genuinely confused, and Azruphêl hated herself for saying it on such a whim. But well, it was too late now. 

“I feel like I’ve overstayed my welcome.” She straightened to look at him. As soon as her gaze met his, she wanted to get in his arms and not move anymore, but she started speaking, she couldn’t go back now. 

“Why are you saying this?” Now, he sounded pained. 

“You saved me, fed me and tended to my wounds, and in return, what did I do?” 

“You kissed me, more than once.” He nervously laughed. “And that’s plenty enough, if you really want to pay.” 

She chuckled, her fingers anxiously playing with the fabric of his garments. 

“But… If I go, you will really pay, though. Will you?” She muttered. 

“What do you mean?” He frowned. 

“Ki-zêri ni?” She asked, her eyes fluttering up to meet his. He didn’t hesitate a second before nodding. 

“Ná! Melin tye… Ni-zêri ki… But, why would I have to pay for something this natural and beautiful? Love is a priceless gift, and nothing could be valuable enough to buy it.” 

She couldn’t be happier, hearing that the one she was loving really loved her back, but she couldn’t help but feel sad for him. 

“They say Elves can only fall in love once, is that true?” She muttered, staring into space. Still, she couldn’t hold back a smile. 

“Why, yes. Once an Elf’s heart is taken by someone, never in their life can they have it back. They either live for eternity with their loved one, or stay alone forever.”

His words were said with such indifference, yet still struck Azruphêl like a stab in the heart. She felt tears coming up to her eyes, and he quickly noticed it too. He immediately wrapped his arms around her as she let her head fall forwards on his shoulder. 

“I’m sorry.” She said, her voice muffled by the fabric of his clothes as she was most likely soaking them with her tears.

He gently rubbed her back, kissing the side of her head. “You don’t need to be sorry.” He softly whispered. “You are the best thing that ever happened to me.” 

“But I’ll fade away, and you won’t…” She straightened so she could see his face, but he still kept his arms around her. “You will be part of my life and death, but I will just be part of a hundred more years of your life, at most. And you will keep on going after me, never ever withering. Because this is how you are, immortal, forever young and never changing. And this is how I am, just another ageing being who will fade as fast as a flower in dried lands…” She marked a pause, licking her lips. “This is why I need to leave.”

He didn’t answer right away, but he did seem hurt. Even if he was trying to hide it to stay as calm as possible, she could see it in his eyes. The glimmering shine filling them with life just disappeared, and he couldn’t hide that. 

“I understand.” He painfully let out. “And I respect your choice.” He marked another, very long pause. “Will you kiss me farewell, at least?” 

She grinned, forgetting her sorrow just by the way he was looking at her. “Yes, m’lord.”

She stood up and cupped his face with her hands. “May I?” 

As soon as he nodded, she leant into a passionate kiss, enjoying the light taste of fruity wine on his lips. 

Elrond quickly wrapped his arms around her waist, pulling himself and her closer at the same time, at a point where he was sitting on the very edge of the trunk, a trunk that would definitely leave a mark on Azruphêl’s thighs. 

His hands wandered up while his mouth wandered down. He started to stroke the top of her back and kissed her neck, which made her tilt her head backwards. She kept her eyes shut, feeling his wet lips all over her neck, then on her exposed collarbone, leaving purple marks here and there, sending shivers down her spine every time his skin touched hers. 

When Elrond dared back up to gently suck on her jawbone, she let out a quiet moan that made him stop on the spot. She felt him smile before kissing her on the mouth once again. 

He was pressing himself to her so much that it actually started to feel good. She let out a sigh in his mouth as he pulled back to look at her from head to toes. 

“Á… Írima nát…” He let out between two breaths. 

She chuckled, tracing his jawline with the tip of her nail. “I may be able to say hello and however, but I still cannot speak Quenya.” She whispered with a grin. 

“You are beautiful.” He repeated, tucking a strand of her hair behind her ear. “Yet…” He marked a pause, looking at her with eyes blown with lust. She had never seen him like that, and she really liked it. “I must admit, you would look even better without that dress on.” 

As her whole body felt like it was drowning in heat, she left a soft kiss on his neck before taking a few steps back. She didn’t talk or anything, she just slowly untied the strings of fabric keeping her dress together, urging to free her boiling skin from the garments as badly as he was to look at her.

She took her dress off, letting it slide down her body and pool around her feet, leaving herself only in her fabric corset and undergarments. The cold breeze immediately sent goosebumps all over her now exposed arms and legs, even if she wasn’t cold at all. Elrond stood up, resting his warm hands on her shoulders.

He seemed even warmer at the moment, and his lips did feel warm as he started to kiss her collarbone, pushing the straps of her corset down her arms. At the same time, she unclipped his cape, keeping the pin that was keeping it together and letting the rest fall on the grass. 

He chuckled and carefully opened her corset, letting it hang by the straps on her forearms, and took off the top part of her undergarments. He kinda stood there for a few seconds, staring at her bare chest in awe, his usually grey eyes black with attraction. 

“Like what you see?” She chuckled, leaning forward to put the pin on the tree. His gaze followed her the whole way as he slightly licked his lips. 

As an answer, he grabbed her by the waist and kissed her, before going down once again, this time stopping on her breasts. He gently sucked on her nips, tearing a low moan from her lips as she rested her hands on his shoulders, tilting her head forward. She buried her nose in his hair, his lovely odour overwhelming her. Nobody had ever done this to her, and she didn’t know she would enjoy it that much. 

After a few minutes, she suddenly grabbed his face so she could look at him and see his face. It hit her like a brick on the head. She felt it, she needed to leave now, or she would never consider it again.

“Is everything alright?” He asked, a bit confused. “Do you want me to stop?” 

“I-” She stammered, swallowing. Her heart was beating so fast she was feeling lightheaded, and her whole body was begging her to let him continue, but her brain was reminding her that she had to be on her way. She slid her undergarments back on. 

“I’m sorry, Elrond.” She muttered. “I can’t let myself do this- I can’t go further.”

“I understand.” He said after a few seconds of pure silence broken only by the wind and birds, but he sounded and looked quite disappointed. 

She was afraid he would take it worse, but he was no Human, Elves weren’t like this. 

“If I listened to myself, I would be staying.” She muttered, putting her dress on. “But this can’t do any good.” 

“Azruphêl-” He started, immediately trailing off. 

“Just know…” She said, already ready to leave. She didn’t want to admit it, but she did have some tears welling inside her eyes. “I love you. And I want you to be happy. I won’t bring any of my mortal sadness to your endless gift and spoil it.” 

“If anything brings me joy it is you.” He murmured, and it broke her heart. 

“Elrond, please…” She rested a hand on his chest, and she could feel his heart quickly beating in his chest. She was no healer, but she could feel it wasn’t right. 

She wasn’t doing the right thing, but she won’t change her mind. 

“Just, let me give you my horse.” He said, and she couldn’t say no to those eyes.

…

Milya was a lovely horse, quite easy to ride. Azruphêl was no horse rider, but she enjoyed riding him. As soon as she was out of the golden forest, she burst into tears. She was feeling empty, as if a part of her was missing. She hated it, she hated herself for choosing ease over love. She wanted to go back, but her Human pride was forcing her to gallop forward, seeking the nearest town of Men, where she could have a normal mortal life, away from the endless beauty of Elves. Away from Elrond. Away from the person she loved. She felt like a selfish mess, but she also felt like she couldn’t fall out of love, it was too present, too painful to be fleeting. 

“Nûphan.” She whispered to herself, her leaking eyes riveted to the horizon.


CHAPTER 4 FINAL NOTES
all the translations you need!!

namárië (Quenya) - farewell
ki-zêri ni? (Adûnaic) - do you love me?
ná (Quenya) - yes
melin tye (Quenya) - I love you
ni-zêri ki (Adûnaic) - I love you
nûphan (Adûnaic) - idiot

to be honest I have no idea of what I'm doing rn haha


CHAPTER 5 TITLE
Home


CHAPTER 5 INITIAL NOTES
It has been a few months since she left Lindon, and not a day passed by without her thinking about Elrond, and without regretting her reckless choice to leave.


CHAPTER 5
“What is a pretty unmarried girl like you doing in here?” The innkeeper immediately asked Azruphêl instead of serving her the ale she was asking for. “Or, you are married, and fleeing from your husband.” 

“I’m just asking for an ale, sir.” She sighed, playing with the few coins in her hand before slamming them on the counter.

It has been a few months since she left Lindon, and not a day passed by without her thinking about Elrond, and without regretting her reckless choice to leave. She wanted to go back, but she was too proud for it. 

She wondered if Elrond thought about her, sometimes. Maybe he had already forgotten her, and coming back would just be embarrassing for the both of them. But maybe he really loved her, and he was suffering as much as she did. 

“Lord, calm down, missus. I’m just askin’!” He slid the mug of ale towards her, and she grabbed it without even looking at it, already walking away towards a table in a corner. 

She hated it, she was alone, wandering from town to town without ever a home. She spoiled that chance, she wouldn’t find one anywhere, not anymore. Not if it wasn’t in Lindon.

She took a sip of her drink, staring into space. She needed to go back to Lindon. She needed to go back to Elrond. She had to give it a shot, maybe he hadn’t forgotten her after all. And, what could be the worst to happen? 

…

His arms crossed, Elrond was half-listening to the High King’s new speech. He already knew it by heart, anyway, and he had no desire to be there at all. Not today. The text Gil-Galad was discoursing on was the last text Elrond had written with Azruphêl by his side. The text he was writing when she suddenly left. He hated that speech. Usually, he would mouth the words along with his King, but today he didn’t. He was almost tempted to fake something just in order to leave. 

But he didn’t. He took a deep breath and smiled, trying to seem proud among the other Elves who were just discovering the speech. At least, unlike him, they seemed to like it. Well, it wasn’t that bad, it was even well written, as he knew how to do. But it reminded him of Azruphêl way too much for his own comfort.

He wished he could have forgotten her, he wished it was just one of those small crushes he used to have when he was a child, but he wasn’t fooling anyone, even less himself. He was in love with her. He had never felt like that before, she was the one who made him feel happy. She made him feel truly alive, as if he wasn’t really there until she came to him. He could feel her presence somewhere in Middle-Earth, and it sometimes was the only feeling he wanted to have. He feared the day when this presence would fade away. Because it would, one day. She said it multiples times before leaving. She would disappear, and he would linger on earth for eternity. An eternity without her wasn’t worth living. 

He shifted his weight from one foot to the other and tried to concentrate on the speech. It was soon over, anyway. 

He felt someone come beside him, but didn’t move, he wasn’t supposed to before Gil-Galad finished, anyway. 

“Hantanyel.” The High King finished, and everyone clapped. 

The presence behind Elrond shifted even closer to him, and he finally turned around to face the Elf who clearly wanted to speak to him. He was a young horse keeper, Elrond knew him, but had barely ever spoken to him. 

“Herald Elrond.” He started, slightly bowing his head as if the Elf in front of him was somewhat more worthy of a bow than their High King, who was standing a few metres away from them, speaking with some girl. “Your mare has just foaled. I figured you might want to see the foal.” 

Elrond smiled. “Yes, of course.” He seeked eye contact with Gil-Galad, so that he could see he was leaving. As soon as he succeeded, he followed the ostler to the stables. 

The foal was beautiful. He had the same black coat as his mother, and his thin and long legs already showed his quality. Elrond was pretty sure he would be as strong and fast as his parents.

“Mimíre…” He muttered, his arms crossed, as the foal was joyfully yet quite clumsily galloping around in his field, his mother watching from afar. She was more eating all the grass within reach, but Elrond liked to think she was looking after her newborn.

“Fínëa did a great job.” The horse keeper said, tucking a strand of his long brown hair behind his ear. “Her foal was born in a bit less than twenty minutes. How shall you name him?”

“Váya.” He said without any hesitation, which earned him a questioning look from the ostler.

“Ocean?” He frowned, a bit confused from his choice of name, since the foal was pitch black and gave zero ocean vibes. 

Elrond shrugged. “It suits him.” He slightly smiled. Váya. It sounded beautiful.

Even if he was happy to finally see his mare’s foal, he was feeling an odd sensation deep inside his guts. It was way too bugging to be ignored. It was as if all his senses were screaming at him that she was just behind him, but he kept on brushing it off. It was nothing. Azruphêl couldn’t be near. She left months ago, she wasn’t there. Yet, his senses had never been wrong before, and he was sure no one had the same energy as hers. It was strong, agreeable and gleaming. He would never forget it. 

…

Azruphêl dismounted her horse, her eyes looking everywhere, as if she was a child discovering a new, forbidden place. Her heart was pounding with anxiety and she was pretty sure nobody would remember her, yet she was still excited and couldn’t wait to find him. 

The golden forest hadn’t changed. Of course, something that old and ageless wouldn’t change in eight months. It was almost relieving, entering a territory without getting harrassed by mistrustful men trying to defend their cities from everything that breathes. 

Milya followed her to the stables, and he already perfectly knew where he was: home. Azruphêl shuddered at the thought. Was it only her horse’s home? She hadn’t stayed long enough last time, she didn’t have the right to call this place full of strangers home just because the person she loved lived there. She quickly led Milya to the horsemaster and wandered around, actively looking for Elrond. 

Nobody talked to her, nor even looked at her. She didn’t know if it was because they were used to seeing her, or if they couldn’t care less about a stray mortal in their lands. Either way, she was quite glad no one was bothering her. 

She eventually ended up on the edge of a cliff overlooking endless water. The Sundering Seas. Azruphêl never thought she would see Belegaer again. It was almost as if, if she really looked, she could make out the shape of Númenor’s coast in the horizon. She gazed down to watch the small waves gently crashing against the rocks below. She quickly took a step back as she was feeling like her body was drawn down, but she stayed there, staring at the horizon, as if she would see a Númenórean ship appear from thin air to take her back. Back home? No, Númenor was not her home, not anymore. 

The wind was making her waving hair fly back, and she couldn’t hear anything but its blow hitting her in the face, so she almost fell down the cliff when she felt an arm graze her side.

“Good gracious, could you-” She started, ready to scold whoever came so close to her, but her heart stopped as well as her words. 

“Ulo úva.” Elrond’s soft voice said, and it echoed in Azruphêl's mind as if he was a ghost. For a second her brain didn’t catch up with the information her eyes were sending it, and she just stood there, staring at the Elf next to her, so close to her. 

Suddenly, she finally processed what was happening, but she couldn’t say anything. Words were torn from her throat. She was feeling like millions of butterflies were trying to burst her chest open as he took her in his arms. He hugged her so tight she couldn’t breathe. She didn’t care, though. She was too happy and shocked to do anything else than keep her arms wrapped around him, clenching her closed fists on the fabric of his clothes, as if he would disappear if she didn’t. Lord had she missed him. 

He picked her up and twirled around, his face nestled in her neck. The layers of her dress flew around them as adrenaline took her in the guts, as if her body was preparing itself to be thrown off the cliff.

When he put her down, she was feeling lightheaded and a tad dizzy, but she didn’t care. He was there, in front of her. She immediately grabbed his face and kissed him on the lips. This time, he was tasting like a weird mix of tomatoes and salt, but she didn’t care, he could have eaten shite and she still would’ve kissed him. She had missed those lips.

“Elrond, I’m so so sorry!” She was saying as soon as her mouth was free. She couldn’t look him in the eyes, she felt like she had betrayed him by leaving. “I should have never left in the first place… I couldn’t stop thinking ‘bout you and- and I was afraid you’d forgot me and-” 

“Azruphêl.” He interrupted her, putting a hand on the side of her arm, and she let out a deep breath, her shoulders slightly slumping. “For me, not a day passed without thinking about you. Every morning I woke up hoping you would come back… Usually time flies by before my eyes, but never have I been so aware of every hour, minute and second passing, every second without you.” 

She chuckled, she couldn’t feel happier. He hadn’t forgotten her, and seemed to still be in love with her. “Still, I am an idiot.” She said. 

“If you are indeed one, I am an even greater fool for letting you slip away.” 

“My mother should have called me Nûphan,” she softly said to overdo it, “for I thought leaving you was the right idea.” She had felt so few in the past few months she was almost overwhelmed by the flood of emotions she was having. She finally felt alive again. She could cry.

“Nûphan.” He repeated, before looking over to Belegaer, his hand gently yet totally unconsciously stroking her arm. “Daughter of the sea suits you the best, I believe.” 

She rested a hand on his chest, feeling his heart pounding even with the lightest touch. A slight smile drew itself on her face, and she finally looked up to lose herself in his eyes. 

“My mother named me Azruphêl because of my father’s love of the sea. Everyone, including me, thought I would become a mariner, because I was so at ease on boats, even more than some adults, and the sea is always right…” She marked a pause, her voice sounded funny telling this. It didn’t seem real anymore. “But well,” she shrugged, “guess they were wrong.” 

“My mother…” He started, his gaze wandering into the horizon. “Was forced to abandon my brother and I to protect us when the sons of Feänor came for her Silmaril.” He clicked his tongue and looked down. He took her hand and gently stroked her fingers. 

“A mother’s love shows love in its purest form.” She softly said, taking a deep breath.

“It may be the most pure form of love, but not the most powerful.” He looked at her with a slight smile, and she easily understood what he was implying. 

She laughed. “Really, Elrond?” 

“What?” He frowned in confusion, a beautiful smile on his lips.

“You’re right,” she looked at the sea as the sun was starting to set, “I- the love I feel for you, nothing can be more powerful. Not even my mother’s love.” 

“See?” He grinned and leaned forward to kiss her. 

She may not be an Elf, but she felt like she was home. Maybe her home wasn’t Lindon, but her home was wherever she could be with Elrond.


CHAPTER 5 FINAL NOTES
hantanyel (Quenya) - I thank you
mimíre (Quenya) - beautiful
ulo úva (Quenya) - it's threatening to rain

this is so cheesy and bad for the last chapter I'm so so sorry but I hope you've liked this small story I never really quite finished