TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Crowned in Bright Radiance	Lillithsea	2022-02-15	2022-02-15	3,835	1/1	9	25	4	392

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Teen And Up Audiences	Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
[NONE]	Galadriel | Artanis, Fëanor | Curufinwë, Finrod Felagund | Findaráto, Turgon of Gondolin, Sons of Fëanor	Alqualondë, First Kinslaying (Tolkien), Power Dynamics, Flight of the Noldor, Quenya Names, Hair, Non-Consensual Body Modification

SUMMARY
After their father leaves them, Artanis and her oldest brother are summoned to their king. Fëanàro, with both old and new grudges against his half-niece, has certain demands before the people of Arafinwë can continue to travel with him.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Crowned in Bright Radiance


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
CW/TW: Taking someone's hair without their consent is rape and that is what happens here. It was difficult to write and difficult to read. If you are comfortable with that, please take care of yourself first.


CHAPTER 1
Crowned in Bright Radiance

The note said no horses. The note, despite being from my uncle Fëanàro, was brief in its commands. Findaráto and I were to walk to his encampment, no escort, no horses. We were to dress properly for meeting our king. We debated about it. I insisted we ride. He insisted I not go. It was all a waste of time. As always, we found ourselves doing exactly what our uncle wanted.

Uncle Ñolo's camp stood between ours and the Fëanorians. Turukáno escorted us through, more for the company than from any fear for our safety, even though some of the bruised and battered did step out to glare at me. I held my chin high and tried to focus on the quiet conversation between my brother and cousin.

“He dismissed everyone who followed him and begged their forgiveness. He honestly thought he was just defending them. Now Father, Irissë, and I have had to find places for them.” Our cousin's brow furrowed. It wasn't the first time his older brother's rash actions caused havoc within their House, but it was certainly the most devastating.

“If some of them are willing, send them our way. We lost quite a few people when Father turned back.” Findaráto kept his voice light and casual, but I knew my brother worried about how we would maintain given our losses. I wanted to reassure him, but this wasn't the time. “It could have been worse. Orodreth almost went back with him.”

Turukáno snorted. “Would that have really been worse?”

We all chuckled. It was maybe the first time I'd laughed in days. As if just taking notice of me, our cousin sighed. “I'm guessing HE insisted?”

“He did,” I jumped in, not wanting my older brother to answer for me. “And this one didn't want me to go, but I knew it would be worse on everyone if I didn't.”

“Artanis...”

“You know it's true. We all three know it's true. Look, Turno, like your older brother, I did what I did. I shed blood. I have to face the consequences of that.”

He studied me and I guessed he was assessing the situation from someone who watched the man who insisted on seeing me now once hold a sword to his own brother's throat, to the throat of Turukáno's father. Uncle Ñolo's children grew up closer to the heat of Fëanàro's anger and Turno lacked the charm or tact of his siblings to make nice with Fëanàro's children. We were alike in that way.

My brother let the topic drift to lighter things. I knew he needed to, for his own mental clarity. After our father left us, he was head of not only our family, but all of the people pledged to our House. Even though my brother shown like the stars above us both in hair and disposition, I knew him well enough to feel the weight of this new responsibility. This meeting with our uncle the king would be the first serious test of that.

My brother paused in his step when he saw the escort waiting for us at the far edge of Uncle Ñolo's camp. Two of our cousins, Curufinwë and Turkofinwë led the group of six others. All were on horseback. All were armed.

My brother's smile was strained. “Is this really needed, Curvo?”

“Hmph.” Curufinwë's look was snide, by that didn't exactly tell me anything. His look was always snide. “We have a duty to protect our people. Your sister here attacked them.”

“THEY WERE ATTACKING-”

“Artanis, please.” Findaráto's used the tone he always used in Court, but his eyes pleaded with me. I nodded slightly and shut my mouth. For the moment.

“That's better. Now hurry along. We can't keep Atar waiting.”

“Fine. Will your people double up or will we ride behind you?”

Our sharp-faced cousin let out what my brother Angaráto referred to as his 'rat laugh' and shook his head. “You're walking. We'll follow you. You best keep a good pace.”

We weren't so much escorted through the camp as paraded through it. The Eldar who followed Fëanàro came out of their tents to watch us. Some of the injured ones gave me far darker looks than the ones I'd gotten in my other uncle's camp. I bit my lower lip and chided myself for it. Shoulders back, head high. They were in the wrong here. I wasn't.

The problem was, I'd picked the losing side.

My uncle's tent was in the middle of the camp, because of course it was. It was large and tall and that shade of red he insisted on dying everything. In a moment of malice, I hoped the berries used to produce that shade of red didn't grow where we were going. My mind had been full of much malice of late, but malice was easier than facing my grief.

My cousins dismounted and ushered us inside. They didn't walk in with us. The tent held several braziers, all burning, making the inside too hot. The smoke made my eyes sting. Several rugs, some woven, some animal fur, lined the floor. I didn't notice any of my other cousins around and felt disquiet in the pit of my stomach. The oldest two held some sway over their father and tended to be saner than he usually was. At least, they had been. After what they did to my mother's people, I honestly couldn't say any of them could be trusted.

Everyone inside the tent was armed. No one had less than three weapons on them. Spears. Swords. Knives of various sizes. I could guess my uncle made most of them. This was a room where one could very easily die.

Fëanàro, my uncle and king, lounged on a chair someone had placed in the middle of the room. His robes (also red), were rumpled and burned in places. His hair, a wild mess of curls, looked like no one had touched it in days. His eyes were bloodshot and burned with intensity. He never looked at my brother. He only looked at me.

This continued as my brother began to speak. My brother was charming and quite good with his words. I think he truly thought that would be enough, but then again, he always erred on the side of the goodwill of others. It would prove to be a mistake again and again for him.

After ignoring him for several minutes, Fëanàro finally spoke. He did not address Findaráto. “Even now, with the Light of the Trees gone, with my Simirils gone, your hair still shines with all the light and beauty of both.”

My brother blinked, “Uncle, as I was--”

“Silence, Artafindë. I am speaking to your sister. Did you know she is considered to be the most beautiful of the House of Finwë?” He screwed up his face, making it very unbeautiful. “Did you know that, Artanis? You, the most beautiful. When I and all of my sons exist. You! What do you make of that, hmm?”

I cocked my head to one side, considering all the polite and even-tempered things I had been taught to say. I couldn't remember any of them. “When they say that I assume they don't know about my mind.”

He laughed, harsh and cruel. “You mind. Yes, yes of course. They know about that too. You are also counted as the MOST WISE of us SAVING ONLY PERHAPS ME.”

Don't smile. Don't smile. Don't smile.

I smiled. “So they say.”

My brother's eyes were massive. “Nerwen...”

“TELL ME, Half-brother daughter, what kind of WISE person would take a blade against their own king?”

This is why my brother didn't want me to come. This. As horrible as everything had been during that kinslaying, politically morale would recover faster if there was someone to target and blame. Someone to be held up as the worst of them would make everyone else feel better. Despite my brother's goodness, he understood this and warned me to stay in camp. He failed to understand that I would not be spared by hiding with our followers.

“I came early to Alqualondë early, to say goodbye to my mother's kin, to speak with them about going with us, about leaving this prison. Then you showed up and started making demands and acting fey. No one would have given you anything, Fëanàro. No one would have trusted you with anything.”

With each statement, the room was hotter, closing in on us. My uncle's face was pure rage. His hands shook and I knew he struggled to control the very fey behavior I'd accused him of. “You dare--”

“You started killing people. One of your followers went for my cousin and I wasn't going to stand by and let that happen.”

“YOU CHOSE THEM OVER US.” His hands were fists.

“I CHOSE....” I forced my voice to calm down. We had agreed the worst thing we could do was to act like him, to spill our emotions out everywhere. I took a breath, then another.

“I chose to defend my mother's people.”

His nostrils flared. “Your mother's people. But not yours.”

I spoke with the certainty of my soul. “I am Ñoldor.”

He laughed at me. “You? You are Ñoldor? How are you Ñoldor? What is your craft, little pampered princess? You say you are Ñoldor! With your blue eyes and glowing GOLDEN hair and Indis's blood in your veins.”

“Asked by the son of a mother with silver hair. Asked by the husband of a wife with red hair.”

“Enough!” He slammed his hands together. Once. Twice.
“You presume to play word games? WITH ME? YOU CALL YOURSELF ÑOLDOR? WELL THEN! YOU KILLED YOUR OWN PEOPLE.”

“I injured people. I killed no one. You ask about my craft? Healing. I have trained to heal. I killed no one because I know the body well enough to understand how to disarm someone without killing them.” I felt my face warp into a smile I knew to be hateful and vicious. “Perhaps, given the circumstances, I SHOULD be counted the most wise.”

He jerked to his feet, his arms flailing in his anger. One of the braziers hit the floor and caught a rug on fire. Several of his people quietly darted over to put it out. The fire distracted him. He watched it and watched as it was stopped. He pressed his palms together and lifted them to his lips.

My brother, who had been watching us yell at each other with a look like his fëa was being drained, took this pause to try and salvage the meeting. “Uncle....”

“I told you to shut up,” our uncle whispered. “Why do none of you obey me when I am your king?”

“It's just, as you can see, Artanis was only trying to defen--”

“You hate me, don't you?” His eyes were back on me. I forced myself not to take a step back. "Answer me, daughter of my half-brother. You hate me and you always have and you do now, even as you stand here."

My voice was quiet. “Yes. Why wouldn't I? What have you shown me or any of us that was worthy of my love?” Out of the corner of my eye, one of the guards flinched. I heard my brother's breath catch. Poor Findaráto. I knew every word I spoke was hurting him. I knew it was pulling things farther and farther away from where he wanted this meeting to go.

He laughed gently and nodded. “Honest. At least one of you is honest. You hate me and yet you still follow me. Why?”

“When I decided to leave, it was because I knew we would never be truly free here. I told myself I was leaving because if I didn't, I will never truly know who I am. But that was before what you did. And as much as I do, do so very much hate you for your violence, Uncle, I know the Valar could have stopped you. In so many ways, they could have stopped you from spilling the blood of our people. But they did not. They sank ships. Mandos handed us a Doom. They don't stop anything or protect anyone or make anything better. All the Valar do is punish and I will not live in their lands.”

He nodded again. “Leaving for yourself. Leaving for spite and mistrust. Not at all for noble reasons. Yes.” He laughed another one of his maddening, shaky laughs. “Perhaps you are Ñoldor after all.”

He continued to stare at me as if considering. The abrupt silence after his yelling and my responses felt strange, disquieting. I felt sweat gather along my spine. I dared a glance at my brother and hated that he looked as scared as I felt.

Not that most people would have realized that from him. Findaráto was a master of poise. “We all want to leave, Uncle. If you will just tell me how we can make things right--”

“That is completely up to your sister.” His voice was gentle, but the menace had returned. “Artanis will now decide your fate."

He lifted his hand to me in the way my grandfather the king had formally motioned for his subjects to answer his commands. "Kneel, half-brother daughter.”

I did not want to kneel. I did not trust my uncle. I did not wish for him to be my king. I knew that as soon as we reached the other shores, I was going to convince my brother to take our people far away from this horrible being and finally live free of him.

I also knew that I would kneel. I knew I was raised to lead my people, to think of them first. I knew my actions had put them in jeopardy and in this moment, I could fake humility enough to keep us safe.

I kneeled. “My king.”

He laughed as he slowly walked toward me. “Oh now don't lie now. You don't see me as your king. By your own admission, you hate me. But I knew that even before. One time I asked you for your pretty hair and you denied me.”

My brother stepped toward me, trying to get between us. Our uncle glanced at his guards. “Restrain him. Over there.”

My brother growled in protest but knew fighting wouldn't help matters. There were too many of them. More than anything, I wished he would have stayed in the camp.

“Do you remember what you said to me when I asked you for your hair?”

“I said no.” Before that moment, he had never deigned to even speak to me. He had only been the uncle who ignored us and looked angry when he had to be near us.

“And when I asked you again?”

“I said no.”

His eyes flared, just as they had the second time I denied him. “And when I asked you a third time?”

“I told you no and I told you to go ask your own wife for hers.”

He hissed and his face took on a different kind of angry mask. “Yes. My wife. My wife has left me, you know. I can't ask her for anything now. Not one thing.”

I certainly did not want to get into the middle of that situation. “Just tell me what you want, Uncle. Do you want me to pledge my loyalty to you? Swear an oath?”

“No, Artanis. There has only ever been one thing I wanted from you.” From inside his robes, he produced a pair of scissors.

I felt my breath catch. My body was shaking. Back to this again, it seemed. Was there anything I could have said or my brother could have said that would have made this meeting end any other way than this?

“Artanis, may I have what I asked you for?” He continued to walk toward me.

At first, I was confused by the question. He could take it anyway. He would take it anyway. I studied him, his look of anticipation, his haughtiness. In a way, it felt like I was about to pay for every transgression he imagined my side of the family had committed.

Then I realized my withholding was the issue. He wanted me to say yes. He needed me to say yes. He wanted me to give him permission because he hated to be denied. The fact that I, a scion of the stepmother he despised had told him no about something was eating away at him.

I closed my eyes. I was a princess of my people and my people were in crisis. I had to think of them. “Yes, Uncle.”

His grin will haunt me until my last breath. “Hold her still. Keep her from moving no matter what.”

I felt guards take my arms. I felt hands on my shoulders and under my armpits. I felt the dark and chaotic heat of Fëanàro's body. I could endure this. I could humble myself before my mad uncle of it brought us out of bondage.

He took the hair he asked for.

Then lowered one of his jewelworking instruments down to my face. He chuckled as he pushed it into the first of four gold bands that held my braid, made up for five other braids, in place. I felt pressure as he cut the band free and pushed it out of my hair.

“What are you doing?”

He didn't reply, he just broke the other three bands and tossed them to the rugs below us. I saw one of them but then refocused as my uncle was roughly unbraiding the larger plait.

My brother caught his breath in a way I had never heard from him. “No,” he hissed. “Fëanàro, no.”

My mind wasn't catching up to what was happening until Fëanàro took the braid behind my left ear and cut it off.

I screamed.

Then he took the braid behind my right ear and removed it.

“No!” I didn't quite scream this time.....my eyes, already stinging from the smoke, flooded with tears, I could feel panic rising in my gut. “Please.”

He placed a hand on my face and leaned down close. I felt his breath against my ear. “Shhh shhh. You have much to pay for, Artanis.”

His guards held me still as my uncle continued to cut off my hair. He cut close to the scalp, taking as much as he could, leaving jags and uneven bits. I could hear my brother yelling, demanding my uncle stop, fighting those who held him.

I could hear my cousins outside, demanding to be let in, demanding to know what was happening.

Outside of the tent, some kind of fight was starting.

Mostly though, I just heard the scissors, opening, jabbing into my hair, and cutting.

Snip. Snip. Snip.

I could feel my uncle's body growing hotter. I could hear him muttering to himself, seeming to speak things he'd wished to say to me since I thrice refused him my hair. His words were slurred because he was drooling. Some of the spit fell onto my face, hitting my forehead and trailing down.

I could feel the small bits of hair as they fell under my collar and dug into my skin. It was sharp and itchy and I never thought my hair could be turned against me. Then again, it had been, truly, since my hair was first desired by Fëanàro. He felt the whole of everything should be his and when he was denied, he did all he could to destroy what was in his way.

His sons my cousins must have won out because suddenly they were there. Seven big forms around us, hitting their own people, screaming all at once. Two of them pulled my uncle away from me.

“What the FUCK are you doing?” Carnistir.

“Let go of those scissors. Don't swing them at me!” Maitimo.

“I TOLD ALL OF YOU TO STAY OUTSIDE!” Their father, roaring at them. I could not imagine my own father speaking so viciously to me.

Macalaurë helped me to my feet. I let him lean me against his chest because I knew my balance was bad. I knew my body was shaking. This was only out of necessity. I could take no comfort when I could still smell the blood of his murders on him.

Curvo stood beside Findaráto. My brother's face was contorted in a way I had never seen. Even after he saw the bloodbath of our grandfather's people, he did not look so angry. “We came here to find common ground,” he hissed at my uncle. “We came here to unite our people.”

“Your sister wronged me and she needed to be punished. I am her King and she is a princess of our people. She needed to be punished! And it is only hair.”

“Only hair,” I said, shocked out of my horror. “Only hair.”

Maitimo signed. “Atar, you know it is more than that.”

“Only hair!!” He insisted.

“Oh fuck you, Uncle. Only hair. You know better than that. Hair that my mother brushed. Hair that my father braided. Hair that my grandfather ruffled. Hair that my grandmother washed when I was little. We are Eldar and some of us have never cut our hair and it holds our memories and part of our fëa and now that is gone from me.”

I was wasting my breath. He knew all of that. He did. He wasn't even paying attention to me. He was too busy picking up the gold bands he'd broken and using them to secure the open ends of the braids he'd cut off. With each one he secured, he wrapped it around his neck and let it drape down around him. They were his trophies now.

“You have what you want, Artafindë. Your people are safe. Now take your dramatic sister and go.”

My brother, still full of anger and grief, made to say something back but my cousin's hand stilled him. Curvo held his gaze as if pleading until my brother nodded and looked at me. I nodded back.

Maitimo signed again, looking far older than his years. “One of you give her your cloak. We'll ready the horses.”

“NO!” My uncle slammed his fist down on his table again. “No. SHE WALKS BACK. No head covering. I want them to see her. All of them.”

“Atar--”

I suddenly laughed.

All eyes turned to me and I laughed more. “No, no. Maitimo, it's fine, cousin. I will walk back. I will leave my head uncovered.” I moved from Macalaurë and strode toward the opening of the tend. Then I turned back to face my uncle.

“And they will see me, all of them. But more so, Fëanàro, they will see you. They will see who and what YOU are.”

I walked outside before I see his reaction. I never saw him again.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]