TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Et adducam te super terram meam	pomegranatecountry	2023-05-30	2023-06-11	7,612	2/5	4	15	2	209

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Teen And Up Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Celebrimbor | Telperinquar/Maeglin | Lómion, Minor or Background Relationship(s)	Celebrimbor | Telperinquar, Maeglin | Lómion, Orodreth | Artaresto, Finduilas Faelivrin, Turgon of Gondolin, Idril Celebrindal, Other Character Tags to Be Added, Background & Cameo Characters	First Age, Nargothrond, Gondolin, Celebrimbor in Gondolin, tyelomion is something that is so important to me, Family Drama, References to Canon-Typical Violence, Friends to Lovers, or i mean, cousins to lovers, Sindarin names, Quenya Names, Elf Language Politics, Mutual Pining, Eventual Fluff, Celebrimbor is a bit of a mess before we get there, Getting to Know Each Other, Getting Together, Mild Hurt/Comfort, Eventual Happy Ending, (for now) - Freeform, (until Maeglin betrays Gondolin), (but we won't go that far here), Other Additional Tags to Be Added, Age Difference, Hair Braiding

SUMMARY
After the exile of Curufin and Celegorm from Nargothrond in F.A. 465, Celebrimbor goes to Gondolin.

Title from Biblia Vulgata Ezechiel 38:16

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Departing


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
Additional warning: author is obsessed with fashion and has strong elf fashion and hair headcanons.
Also I'm sorry if some facts are wrong, it was pretty difficult to track down where exactly everyone was living at this time.


CHAPTER 1
After the departure of Curufin and Celegorm, Celebrimbor stayed mostly in his own rooms, avoiding Orodreth when he could. He had been disgusted with his father’s actions, and therefore the exile did not touch him; still, he knew he could not stay in Nargothrond.

Celebrimbor had not exactly been friendly with Finrod, not in Aman and not in Beleriand; still he had loved his cousin, though Finrod had not returned the feeling. Orodreth he had been friendly with, but only in Aman. It was the word of Fëanor that prevented him from feeling fully comfortable with his Arafinwion cousins, even now, even centuries after the exile from the Blessed Realm. Finrod felt the same; he would not fully feel comfortable with the children of Fëanor in his halls, though he had taken in his homeless cousins out of kindness. Yet Orodreth Celebrimbor had a soft spot for, perhaps because his cousin was soft. There was no other word to describe him.

Alone in the halls of Nargothrond, Celebrimbor felt he had never been more disconnected from his father. His youthful rebellions, never severe, had been a point of contention in Aman, made more severe by his father’s temper; still, his father had loved him, and there was no strong rift between them. In Beleriand, he had accepted a Sindarin name readily, by which his father would never call him. Later, in Nargothrond, Curufin cared for him almost not at all, evidenced by the fact that Celebrimbor had not even been informed of his father and uncle’s scheming for the throne of Nargothrond. It was not that he had been preoccupied: his father had not cared to tell him.

Underground, there were no windows, and it disturbed Celebrimbor. He had been born in Aman; he had walked free in Tirion, in Formenos, under the Trees, and though he had adored the dwarves he had met years earlier, he had no desire to live like them. He required air.

During the days he took to walking outside. He never went far, for he was afraid of losing his way, but most of the day he preferred to be outside. It had not been a week since his father and uncle were exiled from Nargothrond, and though he did not really love his father any more, he still felt uneasy by himself. Inside, he thought it was the suffocating air of the caves; outside, he still felt as suffocated as in his rooms in the stronghold.

Orodreth came to see him, sometimes. Orodreth had also been born in Aman, they shared that comfort with one another, though it was not much. They had not grown together. Orodreth was like a long-lost brother, who Celebrimbor had been aware of his whole life, but never allowed to fraternise with.

“You are troubled,” said Orodreth in a soft voice. He came to sit beside Celebrimbor where he was on a stone bench on a balcony some way up the mountain, looking over Narog. Celebrimbor stiffened slightly; Orodreth looked at him intently. “I would know what it is that troubles you, cousin.”

Orodreth’s familiar manner troubled him. Being called “cousin” troubled him.

“My father,” Celebrimbor said instead. “I feel not myself when he is not here.”

“I feel not myself, also,” continued Orodreth, “when my uncle is not here. My father and I did not have a strong connection. I prefer to… to think of Findaráto in that way.” He looked at his hands. The Quenya name irritated Celebrimbor.

“I think I should go.” He looked into the distance over Narog. He could feel Orodreth’s eyes on him. “I cannot stay here. The air oppresses me. I feel that I cannot work like I am meant to; I know not if it is the absence of my father, or the caves, but I cannot stay here any longer. I know not where where my father has gone, and I would not follow him even if I knew. I would… I do not know where I would go, but I must feel the open air.”

“The air was difficult for me, also. The baths calmed me when I-”

“Would you, please!” Celebrimbor snapped, turning suddenly. “I must leave immediately.”

Orodreth recoiled a little. Celebrimbor had, and had always had, he thought, the least of the fiery temper of the Fëanorians. Still, now, it made him nervous. Celebrimbor thought lesser of him for it.

“Where would you go?”

“I thought of writing to Himring,” he admitted. “I do not know where my other uncles are, after they left Hithlum, or here. I have heard of Amon Ereb, but I know not who is there, so it is not wise of me to write there.”

“Findekáno – Fingon – is the High King,” said Orodreth, “and he dwells in Hithlum. If you do not wish to dwell with your uncles, you should write to him, and he would tell you where to go.”

“He would, indeed,” Celebrimbor mused. “Indeed.”

 

Celebrimbor wrote to Himring, and in not longer than a week received his reply. No room for him in Himring; Maedhros would not take him. No mention of his other uncles. No mention of his father’s cousins. No mention even of the High King. The letter was clearly not written by his uncle.

Celebrimbor wrote to Hithlum. Fingon would not take him either; the halls of Finrod were the safest place for him, and Orodreth was very kind, besides. But, if it does not please you, wrote Fingon’s clumsy hand, already unused to Quenya, I give you the directions to write to my brother Turukáno in the hidden city of Gondolin. It is a haven, and would provide you a more pleasant air.

Celebrimbor managed a communication with Turgon in Gondolin. His cousin was wary, for he had heard of the actions of Curufin and Celegorm, and his bitterness towards the Fëanorians was greater than his brother’s, for Fingon loved Maedhros, and had forgiven him, while Turgon would not, could not, for still he had not the full use of his hands; but he had more trust in Celebrimbor, who had not sworn the Oath. Celebrimbor was welcome, but not immediately: Turgon would send someone to escort him. The city must stay hidden, for the safety of all who dwelt in it.

 

Celebrimbor took to sitting on the balconies with Finduilas. They spoke, though not much; mostly they sat in silence, looking upon the hills and the valleys and the river, Celebrimbor absorbed in his thoughts and imagining himself back in Aman. He was conflicted; he felt more at peace with his Sindarin name, using his cousins’ and uncles’ Sindarin names, yet he longed for Aman, for times before the Darkening, though he had been but an elfling still. Perhaps it was a general longing for the safety of childhood.

Finduilas was quiet at the best of times, and had been born in Beleriand. She had seen little of the world outside of Nargothrond, and delighted in tales of Aman, but Celebrimbor had little to tell; it was the Darkening that was his earliest strong memory. Celebrimbor had longing for the past, for the future, for the present in a different realm, and even the balconies on the side of the hill were oppressive to him.

“I shall miss you when you leave,” Finduilas said one day as they walked long the halls to their usual spot on a balcony. “I know we have not been close, but it has comforted me to sit with you. I was afraid of you before, because I had heard much of-” Celebrimbor looked at her pointedly; he wanted no talk of the Oath. “-of your family, but you are kind to me, though you are distant. I shall miss our time together.”

They passed to the balcony and sat by the carved marble railing, looking out over Narog. Celebrimbor took a moment to arrange his blue silk robes over his knees neatly; he had taken to wearing blue, to distance himself from his father, to express unity with the High King. He thought of the words of his cousin, and wondered if she loved him.

“I have been welcomed here, for which I am glad,” he said, “but this phase of my life has come to an end. I have not been happy here, not for a single moment. I shall dwell with my cousins in Gondolin, where I shall have a window in my room, through which I can see the outside; I might open it, and a bird might come to me; I would live in open air.”

“I am glad to have become your friend, Celebrimbor Curufinion,” Finduilas said, and took his hand in both of hers. Her long flared sleeves of cloth of gold fell over her hands, almost covering where their hands joined. “I shall find a way to write to you, every now and then. And I am awfully sorry that you will not be here to see events that will soon come to pass.”

Celebrimbor swallowed. It was not only his father’s name that unnerved him. “Have you become a sëer?” he asked, his voice almost shaking.

But Finduilas laughed, her pleasant voice ringing in the clear air. “Alas, I have not! But something has happened which soon will be announced, yet none know of it yet, but me, for it has happened to me – save my father only. You see, my dear friend, I have given my hand to the Lord Gwindor, and our engagement shall soon be announced. Pity you cannot be here for the party.”

“I am happy to hear it,” Celebrimbor said, smiling. He had not seen Gwindor much; they had spoken casually a few times, but he felt no familiarity with him. “It is a pity, indeed, but as your cousin I expect to be informed of your marriage, and shall come to celebrate it with you.”

“I should hope a lady for you in the Hidden City, also,” said Finduilas. “I cannot bear to see you lonely. You mourn things I cannot imagine, and I would see happiness in your life.”

Celebrimbor smiled. He had not given a thought to it at all. “Perhaps,” he said. “But I go to Gondolin for peace, for clear air; an elf born in Aman is not designed to live in caverns under the earth like a worm.”

“A lady would comfort your troubled mind and bring you peace.”

Long after their conversation, when Celebrimbor had retreated to his rooms and had his supper alone, he still thought of the words of his cousin. He thought of his life in Aman, and in Beleriand; he could not think of a lady who would have comforted his mind; he could not think of a lady who he had wanted by his side, who he would have wanted to ask as his wife. He knew his family was unhealthy when it came to such things; Curufin cared more for his father and brothers than he did for his wife, and it was mutual among the Fëanorians. The Oath brought them together in a way nothing else could, and no love could be spared from them for anything but the Silmarils, and one another. Though Celebrimbor was not bound by the Oath, he was attached to his family just as they all were. Only, he was not attached to the Silmarils.

He had never desired a woman to be his wife; he had never desired such a relationship with anyone, he realised. He had not been allowed the opportunity. He chose to add this fact to the growing list of reasons why he resented his father.

 

The company from Gondolin arrived the following morning, and Celebrimbor took time to braid his hair in the fashion of the Sindar, and dress in the fashion of the House of Fingolfin. He looked at himself in the mirror, and found he looked almost like his uncle Maglor; he looked almost like he belonged in the House of Fingolfin, for Maglor had much of the look of Fingolfin and his heirs. Celebrimbor wore his mother’s woven belt, and one of his rings was his father’s: it was all the honour he would do for his own family.

The Gondolindrim would stay overnight, and set forth back to Gondolin, with Celebrimbor, the following morning. They had arrived in the late afternoon, in time for dinner, and Celebrimbor did not see them before he was summoned to the dining hall.

Celebrimbor was surprised to note that the Gondolindrim company was small, consisting of five elves only. They had come on horseback, travelling lighly, for it would attract much less attention from Morgoth. Celebrimbor almost adored them for their dedication.

For the duration of dinner, Celebrimbor was mostly distracted. He sat between Finduilas and a lord he could not name, and though Finduilas was making idle conversation with him, being their last day together, his attention was elsewhere. One of the Gondolindrim sat opposite him, across the wide table. He was a young elf, dark-haired and somewhat Ñolofinwian in appearance, but softer; his dark hair was dressed in a clumsy replication of the fashion of Tirion of the time of Celebrimbor’s youth, tucked into a red silk cloth-band that wrapped around his head, and secured with two bodkins of polished bone, with a carved end. It confused him, for the other Gondolindrim had their hair braided in vaguely similar, Sindarin and decidedly Beleriand, styles.

This young elf captured Celebrimbor’s attention, and he did not know what to think. His mouth was dry, no matter how much water or wine he drank. He wondered if Finduilas had bewitched him. Enchantments were not unheard of in the House of Finarfin; Finrod and Galadriel both possessed the ability, and it was not impossible that Finduilas did also. Celebrimbor felt enchanted, at least.

Afterwards, when Celebrimbor wandered through the halls towards a parlour he knew to have a small and often unused balcony, the young elf caught up with him. Celebrimbor spun around as he felt the elf’s hand on his arm, and almost hit him with the suddenness of his movement. The elf flinched but little.

“It is you,” he said, “you who are coming with us.”

“Yes,” Celebrimbor replied, his mouth dry once again.

“You look like our King, and you are his cousin. And as cousin of our King, you are a cousin of mine also, Celebrimbor Curufinion.”

It shocked Celebrimbor. He had not thought he had cousins he had not met before. “My name is Telperinquar,” he said. He did not know why he said it.

The elf bowed slightly. “You are the last heir of the House of Fëanor. I am Maeglin, but I have a Quenya name, also. I would tell you, but I was born in Beleriand, and therefore it was not allowed, yet my mother gave it me, nonetheless.”

Celebrimbor swallowed, and indicated the hallway. “Follow me,” he said. “I am going to sit outside, to breathe a little. The air in the caverns is oppressive to me.”

Maeglin smiled. “It is why you must come with us, is it not?” he asked playfully.

Together they passed through the halls and the empty parlour to the predictably empty balcony, sitting by an intricately carved marble railing, on a marble bench with silk cushions. The balcony was more secluded than the grand one Celebrimbor spent time at with Finduilas, and more comfortable; it had no carved statues, but pillars and railings were carved, and there were multiple cushions and shawls and blankets to provide more comfort. Celebrimbor had noticed the amount increasing as he spent more time here; he suspected the servants knew it was his favourite spot, and knowing his delicate situation, wanted to bring him as much comfort as possible.

They settled comfortably, but Maeglin’s presence troubled Celebrimbor somewhat. He looked out into the distance, over the hills and plains to the mountains that he could barely see in the distance.

“You are not the son of the High King, I assume,” Celebrimbor said, still not looking at his newly-met cousin.

“No, nor am I the son of the King of Gondolin. I am the son of the Lady Irissë.”

“I did not know she had married.”

“She did not. I would rather not speak of my father.” They were silent for a moment, and then Maeglin said, “My mother’s Sindarin name is Aredhel. I am unsure if you knew it or not.”

“I had not seen her after… after Alqualondë.”

Maeglin understood. He had not been there, but he knew what had happened, and why his family had separated themselves from the Fëanorians after. “Were you there?” Typically Noldor, he thought, meeting one’s cousin for the first time and immediately speaking of the Kinslaying.

Celebrimbor shook his head, but said, “In a way, I was. But I was young at the time, and did not have a role in what happened. But I would rather not speak of it, for though we do not live in times as calm as those in Eldamar, we live in happier times than when we left Aman. Half of us are dead, but the ones that remain have at least half the wit to stay that way. At least, on your side.” He turned to Maeglin, and smiled weakly.

“We have created new life, also.” Maeglin adjusted a little, feeling his hair with his hand, making sure his hair was not coming undone. “I am but a hundred and forty-five.”

Celebrimbor cringed. And to think that he had found the young elf pretty!

 

The following morning, Celebrimbor’s breakfast arrived with Orodreth. Celebrimbor was dressed, lighter this time and ready for days’ travel, what little possessions he had packed in only one linen bag he could carry upon his shoulder.

Orodreth held a box in his hands. As soon as the servants departed, Orodreth placed the box in front of Celebrimbor on a table, and said, “I have brought you gifts. You own little, and my gifts would bring you some comfort, and I would have you remember me kindly. I was unkind to your father, but you are not like him.”

Celebrimbor opened the box slowly. Inside were some jewels, mainly Finarfian in appearance, a red silk veil, and a light blue woven belt with an intricate, geometric pattern. “Thank you,” he said, “I shall forever be glad of your friendship. I feared I would be unseemly in Gondolin, as I have lived in wilderness with my father for a long time, and here I have dressed in your uncle's finery.”

“Never you mind it, cousin. I am glad to help you when I can. We young Finwëans must keep together, despite the hatred of our fathers and grandfathers. There are three of us-”

“Four,” Celebrimbor interrupted. “Maeglin, who is among the Gondolindrim who have come to escort me, is a son of our cousin Irissë.”

Orodreth nodded. “Four of us. And we must keep together, we must keep some sort of connection. We have seen the Trees, we have lived in Eldamar. I hope for eternal friendship with you, my dearest cousin.”

On a whim, Celebrimbor took Orodreth’s hand and kissed it. “I am eternally thankful to have been a guest in your house,” he said, and felt Orodreth tremble. “And you needn’t fear me,” he added with a grin. Orodreth pulled his hand away.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 2 TITLE
Arriving


CHAPTER 2 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 2
Celebrimbor arrived in Gondolin on a warm early autumn evening. He tried to look around himself, take in the beauty of the city, but he was quickly ushered through the walkways, past the elaborately carved marble pillars and stained glass windows, into the palace. It was not really a palace, but it functioned as one, and it was where his cousin Turgon lived.

The last time Celebrimbor had met his cousin was at Alqualondë. In Beleriand he had seen Finrod and Orodreth, and Fingon only briefly, and no others who had crossed the Grinding Ice. Though his rational mind knew that none of it had been his fault, he could not help internally cringing as he thought of coming face-to-face with his cousin. All he could do was thank Eru Ilúvatar for the grace of his mother’s face, instead of his father’s.

Well, that wasn’t entirely true. He did have the look of Finwë, but not the look of Míriel. In Nargothrond he thought he looked rather Ñolofinwëan. He hoped it would count towards his cousin’s good favour.

Celebrimbor expected a greeting more grand than what he received. Those who had escorted him the whole way from Nargothrond likewise escorted him to Turgon’s dwelling, but no further. He was allowed but a moment of respite – which he used to stand in the hallways, admiring paintings of faces he had never seen before – before Maeglin, having departed to dress himself properly for the court, took him through the corridors to a small parlour.

“I told them not to take you anywhere,” Maeglin explained, “for I did not know where my uncle has decided to put you to stay. And I think it would gain you sympathy if you stood before him with all your worldly possessions in one bag only; he would feel sorry for you, and more inclined to keep you.”

“I haven’t a need for sympathy,” Celebrimbor retorted, and immediately wished he didn’t.

Maeglin did not look at him. “I suppose you do not. My uncle is a reasonable man, but he does not… well, it is more difficult for him to feel sympathy for a Fëanorian.”

Celebrimbor would have said something else, but decided against it. He thought of Elenwë.

“I suppose I am homeless, if not for him,” Celebrimbor said instead. He knew that if he went unannounced to Himring and cried and begged, Maedhros would take him in and provide for him, but probably pay him no attention otherwise. Fingon would also take him, for love of Maedhros, he assumed, but he would rather put his trust in his uncle.

Maeglin wanted to mention the Oath, and how Turgon was more sympathetic towards Celebrimbor for not having sworn it, when he could and perhaps should have, all things considered. Turgon knew it was mostly age; Maeglin did not.

“Well, we are here,” Maeglin announced, and opened the door to the room wherein, Celebrimbor assumed, was his cousin’s throne-room. He had half-expected a servant to open the door for them.

The room was instead a small parlour, the walls painted in light-blue panels with intricate white details; a sofa and arm-chairs were arranged around an unlit fireplace, and the back wall, on which was a window with a decorated frame, was a side-table with delicate curving legs, upon which was a vase full of white lilies. The room had some other decorated furniture and a finely detailed blue rug on the wooden floor, a chandelier whose candles were still unlit, and light, almost see-through curtains, but Celebrimbor focused his attention not on these intricate details, but on his cousin.

He would not have wanted to, but instinctually he knelt and bowed.

Kneeling in front of his Ñolofinwion cousin was a new kind of humiliation. He had not knelt for Finrod when he had arrived in Nargothrond with his father and uncle; they had been received in kinship and friendship, guests but not subjects. Celebrimbor wondered what his father would say if he saw him now, and he allowed himself a slight bitter smirk.

Above him, he heard Turgon hum slightly. “Rise, cousin,” the King of Gondolin said, “I haven’t a need for any of this performance.”

Celebrimbor rose, with less grace than he would have wanted. “I am honoured that you would have me.”

“I suppose it is better for you to humble yourself before me a little.” Turgon closed the book he had been holding in his hands – Celebrimbor had not noticed it before – and moved to put it on the low table in front of him. Celebrimbor noted how the tips of his fingers were black.

Celebrimbor had not before given much thought to the bleak realities of the Helcaraxë. He had spent much time with Finrod and Orodreth in Nargothrond, and they looked as they always had; Orodreth’s hands were stiffer, and the cold in the winter hurt his bones, but no real visible damage was seen on either of them. Fingon, like his brother, Celebrimbor knew, had some damage to his hands also, and often wore gloves to hide it; it did not impact his abilities much, but he was insecure nonetheless, what with Maedhros with his one hand only, and all that. Fingon’s hands must be black further down, Celebrimbor thought, if he was so adamant on hiding them.

But in his new kingdom, Turgon felt no shame for his injuries. Perhaps he flaunted them on purpose, to place the shame instead on Celebrimbor. It worked.

Turgon leaned back a little and his body visibly relaxed. “Well, do come in. And do close the door.”

Celebrimbor came in, and Maeglin followed, closing the door behind them. Maeglin indicated a seat, and Celebrimbor took it, not before bowing a little despite being told it was not necessary. He placed his bag awkwardly between his knees. Maeglin sat next to him, and like he owned the place he reached to pour himself tea.

“Well, cousin,” Turgon began, somewhat light-hearted yet with an undernote of seriousness, “how have you come here? My brother wrote to me and told me that you were looking for a place to stay, and your letter was brief. Out of all places, my home? Have you not uncles to care for you, do not you Fëanorians always stick together?”

“I don’t suppose you require a detailed tale; I am ashamed of it myself, if I’m honest. But it is a long story, no matter how you put it.”

And so Celebrimbor narrated his tale, from Alqualondë to his current predicament. He spoke of the wilderness of Himland, the caverns of Nargothrond, and his desertion by his father; he was intentionally vague on the events that led to his father’s exile, though he was certain that Turgon knew something of it.

It was the first time Maeglin had heard of Celebrimbor’s life in such intricate detail, and he thought much higher of his cousin for it. He listened intently, barely focusing on his tea, and when the tale was finally coming to its end and Maeglin tried his tea, he found it was cold.

Celebrimbor, in a way, was almost hypnotising to witness, his voice and his manner alike. Maeglin blushed when he thought of it.

“And you suppose I would take you in, after what was done to my wife?” asked Turgon.

“I was barely self-aware when the Oath was sworn, and I followed my father like any child would.”

“You think following orders is a valid excuse for the death of my wife?”

“It is, when I was but a child.”

“And your father has now abandoned you. It counts towards the quality of your stay here. If it was not so, I would kill you.” He was silent for a while. Then, gesturing to Celebrimbor, “These are all of your items, in this bag?”

Celebrimbor nodded nervously. “In Nargothrond I lived in Finrod’s finery, and none of it was my own. This is all from Himlad, and some items I have been given along the way. But it is not much.”

“Would your own items make you presentable in my court, or do I need to supply you with anything?”

“I have jewels and veils and belts, but I have only one court-robe – well, an outer robe I received as a gift from your brother, and the rest of my clothes can look presentable with it. But I do not think I can live in one set of clothes only.”

“Of course, it is what you wore in Himlad. One needn’t fancy robes there. Anything else you would require?”

Celebrimbor wondered how far he could push his cousin’s kindness. He tried his luck, nonetheless. “If you would be so kind to me, I would be ever so thankful if I could be given a space to work, a forge or a smithy of some sort. I must use my hands, you see; it is like a fire that burns within me, driving me to create.”

Turgon rose. “A man who is able to use his hands must make use of them. I will make the arrangements, but I suppose Maeglin can help you settle in your work-space. He has a mine in Echoriath, and is a weapon-smith, so you can ask him for help should you feel it necessary.”

Celebrimbor chanced a look at his cousin, and Maeglin turned abruptly away. Celebrimbor rose and shook hands with Turgon.

 

Maeglin would rather have had supper by himself – they had arrived too late for dinner – but while dressing down for a calm evening by himself, Idril interrupted him.

“I am glad to find you here,” she said as she slipped through the door of Maeglin’s bedchamber. Maeglin internally cursed her for not staying in the parlour. And with his hair unbraided still!

“Where else would I be?” he replied irritably. “I’m about to have supper, and I shan’t have it with you, I want to be alone. I haven’t had even a single piss to myself in a week.”

“Oh but it’s precisely that which I wanted to talk to you about!” she said, surprisingly excited. “My father said it would be enormously helpful for our cousin if you had your supper with him. We don’t want him thinking we’re abandoning him or ignoring his presence, do we?”

“I suppose not. But can’t a man be left to his own devices for one evening? I really would rather not.”

Idril sighed, and dramatically fell to sit on a chair near the door, behind where Maeglin was braiding his hair in the mirror. “I think he would be much more comfortable with you.”

“I would imagine he would be more comfortable with you, since you know him so well!” Maeglin retorted.

Idril recoiled a little. “Oh, well, perhaps I do know him,” she said, her voice much softer. “But he feels he owes a debt to my father, and to myself also, because he feels it is his fault my mother died. I feel it would be more comfortable for him if you went to him, because he knows you, but not too well, and you would have much to talk about. And he feels no such attachment to you.”

Maeglin considered. Celebrimbor spoke to Turgon with a certain kind of respect that one would not expect to come from a relative of the king, especially one of the senior line of Finwë. But Celebrimbor had narrated his tale to Turgon earlier, and Maeglin understood some of the events that had taken place in Aman, that had resulted in the Noldor’s coming to Beleriand, and the perilous journey over the Helcaraxë. His mother had spoken very little of the Helcaraxë, not much more than to sate the curiosity of a small child easily distracted and taking fancy to some other thing. He had never asked much about Alqualondë, and the exact reasons for the crossing; he knew, of course, but he did not fully know. Hundred and forty-five years indeed.

“Ah, well, I guess,” Maeglin relented. “But he is my cousin, so I don’t have to dress for a proper meal, or at least I hope so!”

Idril shook her head. “He has not dressed for a proper meal in a long time. It has not been easy for those who had the ships, either.”

 

Evidently Celebrimbor had not been waiting for company for supper. He opened the door for Maeglin in a white night-gown and a green silk house-coat so thin it was almost entirely sheer, and his hair open and unbound.

“I was just about to bind my hair,” he said awkwardly. “Would you… come later, or is it important?”

“My cousin Idril told me you wanted company for supper,” came Maeglin’s matter-of-fact reply. “But if you do not, it is alright with me, I can go back to-”

“No, no, nevermind.” Celebrimbor looked back into his room, and then back at Maeglin. Then he opened the door wider. “Do come in, I haven’t even ordered my supper yet. And don’t mind the mess here, I’ve been trying to settle in.”

Celebrimbor had not been afforded the luxury of Maeglin’s rooms, though Maeglin guessed that after Himlad any room was luxury, and after Nargothrond a window facing out into a lively garden was living like a king. As Maeglin entered Celebrimbor’s room, he saw that it was rather large, with a clear sleeping area on one side, and a round table with some chairs around it at the other, a writing-desk, a fireplace and some lounge-chairs, a dressing-table near the bed, and a wardrobe with all its cabinets thrown open, and some clothes haphazardly put inside.

“Never mind the mess,” Celebrimbor repeated. “I’ve never done up my own room before, I’m still figuring it out.”

Maeglin believed it. He made to sit by the lit fireplace, and saw the dressing-table was in not much better of a state, with all kinds of jewellery and other items placed on it and in the open drawers. Celebrimbor’s small bag sure did contain quite a large amount of things.

Celebrimbor was at the dressing-table, standing in front of the mirror and doing his hair rather haphazardly. In one hand he held a large bone needle with a white ribbon attached, and on the other he took hold of his hair at the base of his neck. To his best ability he twisted his hair until it began to coil on itself, and then arranged it in a circle at the back of his head, all the while using the bone needle to bind the circle to his head.

Maeglin watched, mesmerised by the almost robotic action, and almost jumped out of his skin when the door opened a little. “Forgive me, my lord,” said the servant when he saw Maeglin, “I am here for Lord Celebrimbor’s supper-”

“He is binding his hair,” Maeglin said, and almost regretted it. To think how it would appear… Maeglin dared not. “We are having supper together here, so if mine could be brought here also, it would be nice. Thank you.” He waved his hand in dismissal, and the servant bowed and left.

Celebrimbor was still binding his hair, but struggling more than he clearly would have wanted to admit. Sometimes he dropped the needle and cursed.

“Is there not an easier way?”

“I don’t think so. My father always did it for me like this, and in Nargothrond I had a servant braid my hair in the evenings. I still don’t know how to do it.”

Later, Maeglin would think of this exchange and wonder why he had ever offered his help. It felt too intimate and too soon. It would have been normal had they always known each other from the start, but now, having only just met, standing there behind his Fëanorian cousin and braiding his hair, Maeglin wondered what had happened to him.

Afterwards, they sat in front of the fire quietly. Celebrimbor looked almost pretty with his hair in one long braid down his back, the curling hair at the front framing his face rather nicely. In braids he looked much more like he belonged in Gondolin, in Beleriand as a whole.

They passed a relatively quiet supper, speaking little sometimes, but not of anything serious. After they had eaten, Celebrimbor quietly retreated back to the fire, and sat there pondering for some time, until Maeglin came to join him.

“I am sorry if I have offended you,” Maeglin began, but Celebrimbor waved his hand at him dismissively.

“No, it’s nothing. It is just… everything here is so new to me, and being with you makes me feel… well, uncomfortable, I suppose.” Celebrimbor was looking at the fire.

Maeglin looked at his hands, fiddling with the tail of the sash of his robes. “I am sorry,” he said, his voice small.

“No, no, it’s nothing that’s your fault. You see, ever since you told me how young you were, it feels… well, I guess it feels like being with a child. I know we are part of the same generation in our genealogy, but I was born before the Darkening.” He remained quiet for a moment, and then continued, “And it is not really your fault, you see, because you cannot control your age. And you do not look to be so young, either. It’s just how I feel about those born here, I guess.”

Maeglin was strangely hurt by his cousin’s words. He reprimanded himself for thinking so, but in the evening when he was in his own bed, he thought of his feelings at this moment, and he realised that it was that exact moment that he knew himself to be in love. The thought was mortifying.

Now, though, sitting here with his cousin, Maeglin only felt a strange coldness in his chest, and he knew he wanted nothing more than his cousin’s approval. He almost wanted to cry.

Somehow or other, Celebrimbor noticed, and put his hand on his cousin’s arm, patting it lightly. “It’s alright, Maeglin. We can be friends nonetheless. It appears to me that you are the closest friend I have here, for I know I am on thin ice with your uncle.”

“Idril told me she knew you before,” Maeglin managed, and the stability of his voice surprised him.

“Oh, we did, somewhat. I am older than her, and because of Fëanor’s hate for the line of Ñolofinwë, we never really spoke. And my father and my grandfather were close, so I was always… you see, I loved my father, and in a way I do still, because whatever happens, he will always be my father. Oh, but I don’t mean to dump my family trauma on you like this! Well, I never knew Idril well – Idril, Itarillë, yes? The names are difficult for me sometimes, especially your side who I have only known in Aman.”

“I suppose, I have only known her as Idril.”

“And I assume your mother has never been Irissë to you, either.”

“No.”

It was difficult for Maeglin to speak of his mother, and Celebrimbor noticed it. He was very perceptive, Maeglin noted.

“I know about your mother, by the way,” Celebrimbor said, more matter-of-fact than he perhaps ought to. “You see, when I lived in Himlad, and in Nargothrond, I lived with my uncle whose Sindarin name is Celegorm. In Aman, there was an unlikely friendship between him and your mother; they were friends, and she joined the hunt sometimes. They had similar interests, and often spent time together, and I suppose his father, my grandfather, allowed it because… well, I suppose because she is a woman. I do not know. But either way, they did keep in touch to some extent in Beleriand, they wrote to each other once in a decade and never really saw each other, but they wrote and they were still friends. So when she died, I don’t know who did it, but they wrote to him, and he was troubled by it for quite some time. But then he had greater worries in Nargothrond.”

“I did not know of this. I wonder if they…”

“They did not love each other, I do not think. My uncle never loved any one but himself, and the hunt, and his brothers. He barely tolerated my presence, and I am the son of his favourite brother.”

“I suppose there is much of my family that I do not know. And us, and our connection, as well.” And, desperate to change the topic away from his mother, Maeglin said, “I notice you take to Sindarin easily. You speak… very freely.”

Celebrimbor’s mood was lifted greatly, and he laughed heartily. “Yes, I learned it to get around here, and I picked up things from here and there, and I know the vernacular fairly well now, and it feels more comfortable to speak that way. I can speak like you, also, but I hope when we are together like this I do not need to. I feel I must remember much more when I speak like I belong in a high Sindar court.”

“Yes, I understand. I suppose you learned much in Himlad.”

“Yes, that was mainly where I learned Sindarin. My father encouraged it a little, so we would have at least one proficient translator, and I would be put to some good use. Too soft as a fighter, too young, I think.”

“But you asked for the forge,” Maeglin pointed out. “I know your father, like his father, is a smith.”

“Oh, yes. But we have had little room for smithing in Beleriand. He did teach me, and for some time we worked with the dwarves, so I could do that, but my father would not let me fight because I was young, in his eyes. But you are not half of what I was when I came over the Sea, and you are a weapon-smith, and all that.”

“Oh, well, I suppose…” Maeglin blushed furiously to the tips of his ears, and probably half-way down his chest. Celebrimbor ruffled the flared sleeve of Maeglin’s robes.

“Don’t mind it, I’m just teasing you. I wonder, do you speak Quenya at all?”

Maeglin still would not look at his cousin, but he had focused his attention on Celebrimbor’s knees where they crossed one over the other. “I do a little,” he said, “but not that much. My uncle teaches me sometimes, but we are a mainly bilingual city, so there is no need for me to know it well.”

I suppose I could teach you, Celebrimbor did not say.

 

Celebrimbor’s room felt empty when Maeglin had left. For some time Celebrimbor mindlessly walked around his room, pacing from the window to the dressing-table to the fireplace, to his bed and back to the window. He opened it and breathed the fresh air, and reminded himself why he was here. He wanted to be here because of the air, because of Nargothrond’s suffocating air.

The revelation had come to Celebrimbor earlier, when Maeglin braided his hair. He had been fussy about anyone touching his hair, and had only really allowed his father to do it – it was difficult to allow even a servant close enough to touch. But Maeglin had come and offered, and Celebrimbor had been too stunned to say anything but “yes, it’s alright.” Such an act was strange to Celebrimbor, because he did not fully understand what significance Maeglin put on the act: he assumed it was likely familial, as they were cousins, after all. Perhaps Maeglin wanted to jump straight into a familial relationship and in a sense push through the strangeness of the situation. Or perhaps there was no such importance on the hair in Beleriand, and Maeglin was only being helpful.

There was a time, before the Darkening, when Celebrimbor had been told by his uncle Caranthir that he lived too much in his own head. He had been little then, and had taken offence to it, but later he would return to that thought, and understand that his uncle was correct, he did live too much in his own head. He spent hours analysing events that had occurred, coming up with explanations and what-ifs, and intentionally avoided the confrontations in real life. He thought of that now, and knew that he would continue to live in his own head and analyse, until Maeglin did something about it.

Celebrimbor retreated from the window and fell on his bed, still in his house-coat and with the bed still made. He rubbed his eyes and wondered what he had gotten himself into, and if he really should have listened to Fingon’s words and stayed in Nargothrond. At least Orodreth’s kindness was mostly formal.

 

Maeglin was similarly troubled. He closed the door to his parlour and shed most of his robes on his way to his bed-chamber, so that as soon as he reached his bed, he pulled off the covers and tucked himself under them, burying his face in the pillows. He groaned into them and wondered what had happened to him.

He thought Idril was pretty, and had thought so for a long time, ever since his arrival in Gondolin as a young elf. He had desired her, in a way, in an immature way, he supposed. And perhaps he still did, because her overt familiarity bothered him still. But with Celebrimbor he felt different, though he could not put his finger on exactly why. He turned around and stared at the ceiling.

Celebrimbor’s acknowledgement of his age, at first, felt patronising to him. He was young, and his cousin was drawing a line between them, separating them by age and experience, and though at first he did not know why, instantly he knew he did not want this separation from him. He wanted closeness with his cousin, but he did not know if he had the boldness to achieve it. Perhaps Celebrimbor, as the older party, could push for it himself.

After all, Maeglin thought, he is a second cousin, a half-cousin at that. It is much better for me.

He sighed. But he is a Fëanorian, the other side of his brain retorted.


CHAPTER 2 FINAL NOTES
I hope you enjoy! I am terrified of reading feedback on my work so I probably won't read comments but I appreciate all of you for taking the time to read this!