TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Noldorán	sillylovesxngs	2022-05-23	2022-05-23	1,100	1/1	6	39	7	413

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Mature	Major Character Death	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien, TOLKIEN J. R. R. - Works & Related Fandoms

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
[NONE]	Finwë (Tolkien), House of Finwë, Fëanor | Curufinwë, Fingolfin | Ñolofinwë, Fingon | Findekáno, Turgon of Gondolin, Maedhros | Maitimo, Ereinion Gil-galad, Maglor | Makalaurë, House of Fëanor, Sons of Fëanor	Canonical Character Death, Rated For Violence, Canon-Typical Violence, Canon Era, Canon Compliant, First Age, Beleriand, Middle Earth, Angst, Hurt No Comfort, Family, As in the family that fights together dies together, The Noldor, One Shot, Gen Work, Maglor (Tolkien) Through History, Maglor | Makalaurë Needs a Hug, Second Age (Tolkien), Blood and Injury, Narrative, descriptions of dying, Burns, Major Character Injury, this fic is my baby, Stabbing, Silmarils, Burning, Impalement, Suicide, Gallows Humor, foresight, Reflection, Stream of Consciousness, Regret, Mental Anguish, Self-Esteem Issues, Exactly What It Says on the Tin, Quenya Names, Trauma, Missing Scene, Fall of Gondolin, Nirnaeth Arnoediad, Character Study, War of the Last Alliance, War of Wrath

SUMMARY
Finwë Noldorán takes his last stand so that his family may live. They all go on to die the same death, in the end.
*

  “But Maglor is not enough to keep him here. Or, rather, Maedhros is not enough to be kept.”

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Noldorán


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
There are a whole lot of tags to cover all my bases. Read safely, & enjoy!


CHAPTER 1
Finwë takes his stance, a battle position of old, and grips the sword tightly. The children are watching from the battlements, he knows, though he has told them to flee long ago. This is for them: It is for the children. 

Melkor strikes. Yes, it is for the children he will die. His skull cracks on the steps of Formenos. He is warm and does not know what he dies of in the end. Was it the head wound or the long chain of his necklace, caught on the bannister nearby? Finwë dies and

 

Fëanáro knows that he is in his last moments, knows it with the certainty of death, but can bring himself to feel neither happiness nor grief. The burns on his body snake around his waist, around his throat, and the calm overtakes him when his sons lower him to the ground. The energy is almost gone when he speaks his last.

The Oath. Everything is still. His last thought, tinged with exhaustion, is the solemn regret that he will never watch his children - joyous under the light of the sun. Fëanáro is dead when

 

Fingolfin rides to his last, the heaviness in his heart permanent. What is this? What is it, that he is doing to the children.

Rochallor is a trusty steed, in that he will choose Fingolfin even in this. He dares not think on it any longer, what he is doing to his Findekáno: the last of his children. When Morgoth impales him it all comes rushing back, Findekáno. His valiant Findekáno. The blood is in his throat. He sends a prayer to Manwë. Do not let the children see. The death of Fingolfin is perhaps not a glorious one.

 

Fingon will not die, he is not going to die. He is losing his own battle, yes, but Maedhros will win them this, he knows. It is the only thing he can trust in anymore, and so when the balrog’s whip encircles him it is Maedhros he thinks of.

He had saved Maedhros, once, in the spring of his youth. It hurts to think of him so broken down, though there has been time enough to build themselves anew. Saving Maedhros? It is perhaps the only good thing he has ever done, though the person he loves best would protest it. He smiles. Perhaps there is one other thing he has done right. A sharp pain lances his heart. Maedhros… 

A moment, but, is that an axe sticking out of his chest?

 

Everything is burning, falling apart. Turgon finds himself ripping at the seams. It was not Elenwë’s death that broke him at the last, no. A coughing fit overtakes him as the plumes of smoke enter the tower, and the paneled floor shifts dangerously beneath him.

It was not Elenwë’s death that broke him, he thinks, falling to the floor. There is a harsh crack as his cheekbone breaks. No, it was Finrod’s. The thought of him, Tol-in-Gaurhoth, the news was enough to send him mad with grief. It still does now… He had not even succeeded in saving the one, safe thing he had left. Gondolin never was golden without Ingoldo. Never good enough, and that was the problem, wasn’t it? The tower groans out its last stand.

This is the moment that Turgon recalls his fear of being buried—

 

But Maedhros? Maedhros, he is already dead. There has been nothing left for him, since, well— since Findekáno. It has been unbearable.

Maedhros rolls the Silmaril in his palm, bringing on a fresh wave of pain. Oh how he deserves it. Maedhros never has done a good thing in his life.

He has Káno left, one of them, right here beside him. He never has been able to stand being alone, and yet, he is still leaving Káno. There is one thing he has left: Let it not be said that Maedhros Fëanorion is a liar. 

But Maglor is not enough to keep him here. Or, rather, Maedhros is not enough to be kept. No, Maedhros has not done a good thing in his life, only mingled Maglor’s tears with blood.

Maedhros should never have let Findekáno go, even now he can not think of him as Fingon. Should have tied him to his bedposts with golden ribbons. He knows he had the chance.

Not a good thing. Findekáno would say differently.

He looks over his shoulder, says, “Káno, forgive me. I love you,” hates how it sounds like a question. After all, Maedhros Fëanorion has only ever been a tool, an instrument of others’ pain.

 

Gil-galad feels the scorching pain of Sauron’s visceral heat. Pain pain pain. 

His heart thrums on, though not for much longer now. There is a smell like burning as he exhales, smoke escaping his lips. It is literally impossible.

Gil-galad wheezes a laugh, sparing a thought for Elrond. Does he now lose his cousin, all that is left of the family he never knew? And what would he say, Send my regards to Celebrimbor.

Ah, but Elrond is not heartless. Different from himself, in that respect. In his periphery there is the blood red glow of a horseshoe and— ooh, that’s hot.

Is this a good time to ask who his father is? 

 

Maglor is the last of them all. Unbeknownst to him, seven kings of the Noldor watch over him from their seats in Mandos. 

There is no purpose left to his life since Maedhros, and he cast the damned Silmaril into the sea. There is no gain, nor joy in his being here now. He has heard of the deaths of Celebrimbor, of Gil-galad. His little boy and his kinsman.

Is that not the purpose to Maglor’s life, then? To grieve them all? Sometimes, he thinks so. What other reason is there for his going on, he wonders. None.

None and none.

Atar surely said it differently, but Maglor’s voice is hoarse now, so perhaps he can be forgiven. None and none. And none, and none. For who would be proud of Kánafinwë Makalaurë now?

He misses his Elrond, his Elros who he will perhaps never see again. He will never see any of his children again, but still it is why he goes on. For the children and the rare chance to see them again. He misses Maedhros.

Who is there left for Kánafinwë Makalaurë, in the bitter end. None and none. And none, and none.

And doesn’t the sea look lovely, today?  Don’t the waves look enticing?

Elrond, and Elros, and Celebrimbor: Gil-galad. None and none. And none, and none.


Fin.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Feel free to let me know what you thought, and thank you for reading!