TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
If the concentration of Light is related to quality of life, then it should control the burning of my fëa	Within_the_Shadows	2023-01-12	2023-01-12	12,280	1/1	6	38	4	493

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Teen And Up Audiences	Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Fëanor | Curufinwë & Sons of Fëanor, Fëanor | Curufinwë/Nerdanel, Curufin | Curufinwë/Curufin's Wife, Fëanor | Curufinwë & the Light of the Trees	Fëanor | Curufinwë, Nerdanel (Tolkien), Curufin | Curufinwë, Caranthir | Morifinwë, Celebrimbor | Telperinquar, Amrod (Tolkien), Amras (Tolkien), Celegorm | Turcafinwë, Telperion - Character, Laurelin - Character	Mental Instability, Silmarils, Underage Child Begetting, Creation of the Silmarils, Neurodiversity, Curvo learns an important lesson in the value of wisdom, But one of the consequences is rather cute, Hurt/Comfort, Quenya Names, POV First Person, Somebody please save Fëanor before it's too late

SUMMARY
After sending his children to Arafinwë's during a depressive episode, Fëanáro seeks to control his moods with the Light of the Trees.

Or

One potential explanation for the creation of the Silmarils and their significance to the Fëanárians.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
If the concentration of Light is related to quality of life, then it should control the burning of my fëa


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
This follows in line with characterizations in The End of the Road.

Names
Fëanor - Fëanáro
Caranthir - Carnistir
Amrod - Pityo (Ambarussa)
Amras - Telvo (Ambarussa)
Curufin - Curvo
Celebrimbor - Tyelpë
Celegorm - Tyelko
Meadhros - Nelyo
Maglor - Makalaurë
Galadriel - Artanis
Finarfin - Arafinwë
Fingolfin - Nolofinwë

Ages of characters in this fic (I followed the idea that elves come of age at 50 and are considered proper adults at 100, and that human and elven children physically grow at the same rate until about age 3, but other than that I didn't follow any sort of math)
Name: elven age (human equivalent)
Nerdanel: 143 (27)
Fëanáro: 141 (27)
Maitimo: 92 (21)
Makalaurë: 59 (19), married age 54 (18)
Tyelko: 53 (18)
Carnistir: 45 (17)
Curvo: 37 (15)
Ambarussa: 32 (Telvo 11, Pityo 9/10)
Artanis: 31 (11)

 

Vocabulary:
Alósanwë - thriving ósanwë; a made-up term describing a condition where an elf has very strong ósanwë and therefore exceptional sanwë-latya abilities. It's caused by a specific type of neurodivergence in elves that allows them to be far more connected to the spiritual and physical elements of Arda than normal. This is not a canon condition, but rather made up so certain characters' abilities could diverge from the normal rules of ósanwë. It’s an expansion on the strong sanwë-latya abilities Dawn Felagund gave Caranthir in Another Man’s Cage.

Note
Like many others in the fandom, I've disregarded/changed some of the rules surrounding elves, sex, and marriage. I mean, the "rules" technically still exist, but as a societal construct rather than a true physical or mental limitation. It's not like the House of Finwë was good at following societal rules anyway...

CHAPTER 1
In the later hours of the afternoon, as flecks of silver begin to lazily float among brilliant gold, I slump in the bathtub with the water up to my nose, blowing ripples in the surface as I try to convince myself to rinse off and get dressed. Dinner will be ready soon and Nerdanel expects me to be there whether I feel like it or not. I spend too much time alone with my projects, she says, as if the lessons I give our children and apprentices aren’t enough. 

Across the hall, Pityo and Telvo are conferring with Curvo on his newest project, providing helpful feedback while Carnistir bluntly dishes out criticism. Their voices, three adolescent bright and one slightly lower and more edgy, grate against the inside of my skull. I blow more ripples in the lukewarm water, but it doesn’t help much. The pressure in my chest is building, aggravating me, tempting me to jump up and start yelling. But I don’t. I love my boys. I won’t lose my temper. 

The door to the master suite bursts open and Curvo shouts, “Atto, tell Carnistir to mind his own business! I didn’t ask him for his opinion! What does he even know about jewelcraft?”

“I know what looks good, dimwit,” Carnistir snaps as he stomps in behind him.

Curvo is crashing towards the bathroom now, stopping to bang on the door. “Atto! Atto, are you in there? I need your help!”

I let out a harsh breath through my nose. “Can it wait? I’m trying to take a bath!” 

“You’ve been in there for ages!”

“Well, maybe I need some peace and quiet!”

There’s a moment of pained silence, then Carnistir mutters, “Why would you look for peace and quiet inside the house?”

“Because I needed to take a bath!” Stars, I love those kids but sometimes they make me want to smash my head off this tub. 

“Why did you even bother having seven kids if you can’t handle the noise?” Curvo adds grumpily, which stings because I’m the closest to him and he should know that I like having him around. There shouldn’t be any doubt clouding his thoughts. But there is, and so I push my hair back with my palms and force my emotions to stay where they belong: inside and far away from my children. 

Their constant bickering has a tendency to rub my inflamed fëa raw. It’s their careless words and razor blade thoughts, angering me even when the worst of the insults never leave their mouths. Carnistir and Curvo are by far the worst. Carnistir’s thoughts and speech are so raw, sharp and bleeding around the edges, and Curvo can’t accept criticism without taking it as a personal affront to his character ( And that’s how we know he’s your son , Nerdanel likes to tease). It fills him with hot shame and leaves him prone to emotional outbursts, as witnessed by his presence outside the bathroom door. One doesn’t speak to him after he’s been faced with criticism or failure without getting verbally punched in the gut. 

But while I have the sense to wait for everyone to calm down a little before attempting to speak again, Carnistir walks straight into the line of fire. “All I said was that the colours are wrong. Lendamë likes dark and moody colours, not bright and cheerful ones.”

“I know what she likes!” Curvo snaps. “I see her all the time!”

“She only wears those colours because her mother wants her to.”

Muttering foul words under my breath, I rinse the soap out of my hair and step out of the tub, wrapping my hair up in a towel and throwing on my bathrobe before storming into the bedroom, water dripping all over the floor. Carnistir takes one look at me and turns bright red, while Curvo stares at me defiantly, holding the chain of a necklace tightly in his fist. Regardless of the colour scheme, which would only be wrong if Carnistir’s assessment is correct, the metalwork is rather plain and was clearly rushed - not what I expect from a young nér as talented as Curvo. 

“Save your breath,” I say before either of them can utter a word, turning my gaze from the two of them to Curvo alone. “Melt it down and start again. You were too impatient. It won’t last more than a few years like that.”

Curvo pales, his hand trembling as he looks down at the necklace in his fist. His face twists, but no words come out.

“I know you can do better than that,” I continue, taking the orange and yellow pendant - shaped in the likeness of Laurelin - and peering at the facets in the gems. “Your cutting was sloppy. Lendamë will like it better if you put more time and effort into it.”

“It wasn’t even-” Curvo begins, taking a deep breath before scowling, “She just wanted something to wear that she doesn’t have to worry about losing or breaking! It wasn’t supposed to be perfect!”

I pull the towel off my head. “Then what’s all the fuss about?”

Curvo just makes a choking sound and stomps out of the room.

“You didn’t need to be such an asshole about it,” Carnistir growls, his colour so deep now that his freckles are being swallowed whole. 

My patience, already frayed at the edges, unravels completely. “And you didn’t need to provoke him.”

“You didn’t need to tell him to throw his work in the fire,” he snaps back. “You could’ve just told him to listen to me.”

Like that would’ve gone over any better.

“I’m not having this discussion right now,” I say as I cross the room to the small pile of clothes on the bed. “Tell Curvo he can keep the necklace like it is if he wants. It doesn’t matter.”

Carnistir glowers at me for a moment, then mentally slaps me, sending prickles of pain from my head down to my toes.

“Carnistir-” I start, but he’s already leaving, slamming the door shut behind him.

I’m sorry . That’s what I want to say - two words I’ve only uttered a handful of times in my life. The first time I said them I was curled against my mother’s shell of a hröa, sobbing that I was sorry for killing her, for being too strong. A baby with alósanwë is hard enough for a stable person to handle, let alone an unstable one, and after nurturing Carnistir’s strong and restless baby fëa, I can’t imagine how hard it was for my poor mother to carry me.

As I consider this, I stand next to the bed with my toes pressed into soft fur, unable to fathom walking downstairs to take my place at the dinner table. Nerdanel can yell all she wants, but I can’t eat while being suffocated by Carnistir’s and Curvo’s hurt while simultaneously listening to six different mouths chewing food in six different ways and being bombarded by the cacophony of verbal and mental chatter coming from my family and the servants. I just want to be alone. 

I need to be alone.

Shedding my robe on the closest chair, I pull on my purple silk sleeping tunic and trousers, shut the curtains against the mingling light, and curl up on the bed. My hair is still wet, bleeding into the pillowcase, but I can’t bring myself to do anything about it. Hurting Curvo has opened the floodgates for other shameful memories that I can’t push away, that seep into my bones like poison. 

I keep reliving the day I showed up at Arafinwë’s, proclaiming that he wasn’t giving Artanis a proper education. Every bone and muscle in my hröa had been on fire, and I was so convinced that Artanis needed me as her teacher that I didn’t realize the damage I was doing. The wild strength of my fëa was overwhelming for Artanis and forced Arafinwë to send me away. 

When I crashed back to Arda I wrote him an apology, mortified by my memories, but it was too late. He asked me to stay away from Artanis and told me, in no uncertain terms, that I was changing for the worse, not the better, and that he would be limiting our interactions moving forward. He said he was worried about my relationship with Nerdanel and the kids. He might as well have said I was turning into a monster.

It was hard to sleep or find any rest after reading that letter. I lay in bed or worked alone on my commissions, hot shame boiling in my chest and threatening to burn me alive. Then the anger reared its ugly head, targeting those who told me time and again that my intelligence came at a detrimental cost and would destroy everything I held dear. Then, slowly, as I began to believe their terrible prophecies, the anger morphed into despair and sadness and my fëa ached for the comfort of my mother. Only she could soothe the raging fires inside me. With her, I knew I was safe.

I rarely feel safe anymore, especially when left alone with my thoughts. I fear the death I brought on my mother will repeat itself, either in myself or in someone I love, and as penance for my past I melt down or destroy some of my work every few months. The act is pure agony, but if I don’t do it I feel sick to my stomach and my heart races out of fear that my pride will overrun me and kill someone else. 

My pride will be my downfall, my family says. I want to be the best at everything I do and I pour too much of myself into it, even when begetting children. Seven children - with one set of identical twins, no less! - is unprecedented among our people. Five is considered excessive, bordering on dangerous for the mother, but seven…The price must be paid, Nolofinwë said to me after the Arafinwë incident, and if not at the time of birth, then later. Perhaps now. You’re losing control, and it isn’t good when fire runs wild. It needs to be put out before it destroys everything in sight.

Do I want to put out the fire, though? Without it, I wouldn’t have created half of the things everybody takes for granted. Or even if I did, it would’ve taken me much longer to do so. It was during my sleepless nights at Mahtan’s that I researched and came up with the plans for the lampstones. And it was during the sad, desperate days of my early adulthood that I put together the last pieces of the tengwar. Even when my fire burns low it still burns hot, and in my agony I pen my best writings and forge items of terrifying beauty. In contrast, it’s said that my mother couldn’t create anything in the end. Her fëa grew dark and shrouded in fog.

But despite the blazing heat of my fëa this evening, I feel more like my mother than my usual self. I just want to shut my eyes and slip away for a while. For a few months, maybe, or a few years. Just until I’m ready to face the world again.

There’s a shout from downstairs and Nerdanel’s heavy footsteps echo through the halls, rising in volume until she bursts through the door with a thundercloud rumbling in her wake.

“Your sons look up to you, you know. They hang onto your every word. So, you might want to think before you open your mouth.”

“I was trying to take a private bath,” I scowl, still lying with my cheek pressed against my damp pillow.

Nerdanel huffs. “Is that an excuse?”

Instead of responding, I plug my exposed ear with one finger - as if that will keep Nerdanel’s angry thoughts out of my head - and curl my toes up tight. 

Please go away. 

But Nerdanel sighs and crawls onto the bed, taking my hair in her hands. You didn’t even brush it.

I was going to. 

She gets up, returning with a comb, and I flinch when the bed shifts under her weight. Sit up so I can dry it first.

I do as I’m told, sitting hunched over as she pats my hair dry with a towel. 

“Bad day?” she ventures after a minute or so of silence.

“Yeah,” I whisper.

“Normal bad or Bad bad?”

“I think I thoroughly exhausted myself,” I confess. 

Nerdanel hugs me around the shoulders, enveloping me in her soft embrace, and kisses my cheek. “You were running pretty high for a long time.” 

“I know.”

“But you can’t treat your children like that.”

“And what do you propose to do about it? They won’t give me any space to breathe. Nobody ever does!”

Nerdanel shuffles back so she can comb my hair. “We could send the kids to Arafinwë’s for a bit.”

“But he doesn’t want anything to do with me,” I mumble, pressing my hands to my burning cheeks. “And I love my boys. I wanted every single one of them. I shouldn’t be sending them anywhere.”

“He’s angry because you don’t take precautions against your emotional whims. You scared him and Artanis and he wants Artanis to know that she’s safe. But he won’t shut you out forever, and he won’t refuse our children. He never does.”

I sigh. “Fine…you should write to him tonight. Even if I miraculously wake up feeling great tomorrow it’ll be good for the kids to learn about Telerin culture.”

“And they can have fun with their cousins.”

“Half-cousins.”

Nerdanel sighs. “I wish you would stop emphasizing that. You shouldn’t take your anger out on your brothers and their children. You’re upset with Indis and your father, not them.”

“Nolofinwë is actually a pain in the ass,” I retort. 

“So are you.”

If I wasn’t feeling so crappy I might’ve laughed it off, but it hurts and a muffled whine comes out instead.

“Fëanáro?” Nerdanel wraps her arms around my neck and leans forward to see the fresh tears on my face. “Hey, it’s alright. We can work on it, okay? We all have our weaknesses.”

I dig my fingers into my eyes. “But everyone wants me to be perfect, just because I-I’m good at everything else. But I can’t…I can’t be nice all the time. It’s exhausting.” My quiet tears turn into sobs. “Maybe…sometimes…”

“Sometimes what?” Nerdanel prods, holding me a little tighter in her arms, soft and warm. 

Sometimes I think I’ll end up like my mother. Sometimes I embrace the fire of my fëa, but other times it hurts so much that it scares me and I want to lie down and escape my hröa so I can find some peace.

“When you’re scared, come and find me,” Nerdanel says softly in my ear. “I’ll stay by your side until you feel safe again.”

“Promise?” I whimper.

“As Eru is my witness, I’ll always be here for you. I knew about your problems when I married you. I knew there would be hard times ahead, but I married you because I love you.”

“Sometimes love isn’t enough.”

“Fëanáro…” 

My parents loved each other and they still gave up and moved onto other things.

“I’m not leaving you,” Nerdanel says, kissing my cheek several times in a row. “I’ll still be here when you come out of this.”

The strange thing is, when I’m in this state I don’t necessarily want to come out of it right away. I want to let the darkness wash over me and force me to rest. Yet, at the same time, it’s painful and frightening and I want the shadows to go away. They make me dislike people and hurt them out of anger and fear. They make me hurt Nerdanel and my children.

But the opposite state can be just as terrible. When the shadows become bright lights and my brain runs so fast I can’t sleep, I become more harsh in my criticism and get frustrated with my apprentices. They can’t even draw a rough sketch of their own ideas without me swooping in to take over, the ideas coming fast and furious, and making it my own project. Then they pout because I never let them work with me on my personal projects, and Nerdanel gets mad because I upset them by stealing their “original” designs (Who is she kidding? All their designs come from what I and the other smiths have shown them), and eventually I have to send them out to collect supplies or deal with commissions in other towns just so I can work in peace and get things done right . 

And to make matters worse, my half-niece, Artanis, who matches me in fire and intelligence, seems to think that one day I’ll explode and take everyone down with me. She says it with all the certainty of someone with alósanwë and the gift of foresight, and while I know prophecies can be revoked if you change your path, I still fear that she’s right.

“Will you stay,” I ask, “if I crack? Or explode, as Artanis puts it?”

Nerdanel gives me another wet kiss on the cheek. “Yes, I will. I promise. I’ll never let you suffer alone.”

But somehow, even as she hugs and kisses me, I have the sinking feeling that she will.

For the most part, the kids go willingly, though not without some hesitation.

“We’re sorry,” Telvo says when the kids are about ready to leave. The carriage is already outside, loaded down with four sets of trunks. Tyelko hasn’t brought his down yet. 

I sit down on the bench next to the shoe rack so I’m level with the twins. “Sorry for what?”

“For being too loud,” Telvo murmurs, turning his watery eyes to the floor. Pityo whines in agreement and steps forward to give me a tight hug.

I pull him down onto my lap, hugging him back. “What’s happening to me isn’t your fault. You didn’t do anything wrong.”

“But we have to leave,” Pityo chokes out. 

“Yes, but that’s because of me, not you. I’m not feeling very well right now. As soon as I start feeling better we’ll bring you home, I promise. We’re not sending you away forever.”

Pityo nods and I stand, setting him on the floor so I can say goodbye to the others. Curvo steps readily into my arms, soft and warm like his mother. He doesn’t always care for his shape, but it makes for some excellent hugs. 

“Don’t leave us,” he whispers as his fingers tighten around my tunic. “You’ll get better.”

I rub his back and let him go, brushing a tear from his cheek. “I’ll be here when you get back.”

Will you? asks a concerned voice in my head. Carnistir is kneeling by the door, busying himself with checking his travel bag and appearing disinterested, but his fëa quivers and pulses with worry and pain. 

I’m not planning to leave you anytime soon, I reassure him.

His fëa slams into mine and we hug in spirit, melding together so his smaller, steadier purple flames intertwine with my wild orange and white ones. Much of our interactions occur this way, without any physical indication that we’re communicating at all. People often think we don’t get along because of it, mistaking our silence as evidence of strife, but in truth we get along fairly well. I know he’ll be with me in spirit even when he’s living on the shores of Alqualondë. 

Yeah, you can’t get rid of me that easily , he says in response to my thoughts.

I wouldn’t want to. 

That’s when Tyelko storms past us with his hunting gear rather than his trunk.

“I’m not going to live with our stupid cousins just because you decided you don’t like us anymore,” he announces as he pulls on his riding boots. “I’m old enough to make my own decisions. If you need me I’ll be with Oromë’s hunt.”

He shoots me a glare that slices me open and leaves me bare, his expression almost feral as he turns to go, pushing the door open so hard it nearly flies off its hinges.

I bear it the best I can without shouting or running after him. I ran off several times when I was angry with my own father and that didn’t mean I loved him any less, and I know the same is true for Tyelko now. But while I understand his need for space, another part of me, the part that’s a father, knows that I should’ve spoken to him alone last night and provided reassurance that my love for him hasn’t diminished. He’s a wild elf, but he’s my wild elf and I love him. I should’ve told him that, but I didn’t, and it hurts to consider how he must be feeling right now.

I can only hope that I’ll be able to patch things up when he returns. 

The idea for the Silmarils comes to me like a flash of lightning. I’m sitting on the bed, flipping through the kids’ sketches for their newest projects when I’m stopped by a scene Carnistir submitted for critique. From a young age, Carnistir has shown considerable talent for the finer, more delicate arts. He can weave daydreams into his drawings, bringing them to life. Hair blows in the wind, voices chatter or laugh, and people move across the page. The ink and charcoal he uses are completely ordinary and remain still, but the effect of whatever spell he’s placed on them has so much power over the mind that you can’t tell unless you’re really looking for it. 

In this particular sketch, Carnistir has drawn the dust of Laurelin and Telperion swirling across the page until it comes to rest in a dancing Artanis’s hair. Her dance isn’t calm and fluid, as one might expect from the Teleri, but passionate and wild. And as she dances among the swirling Tree dust, the Light is enraptured and attaches itself to the silky strands of gold and silver on her head. 

Artanis has carried the Light of the Trees since she was a toddler. I can feel its power whenever I get the chance to hug her or touch her head. The mingled Light flows into me, calming the fire raging in my blood, stronger and more independent than the Light that drifts over Tirion and its surrounding lands. 

I’ve been fascinated by it for years now. The Light has never attached itself to me, even when I ask it to, and I’ve found myself so jealous of Artanis that I’ve asked for a strand of her hair on three different occasions. But she said no every time. It was her hair, she said, and I was being creepy by asking for it.

That’s when I learned that my obsession with her hair was seen as bordering on harassment of an indecent kind. 

I’ve tried to stop thinking about capturing the Light since Nerdanel brought that horrible thought to my attention, but as I study Carnistir’s sketch I can’t help reconsidering its life-giving properties. What if I could find a way to trap the Light directly from the Trees themselves without using hair as a vehicle? There has to be another way. Maybe it can be persuaded to take up residence in a gemstone. I could wear it everywhere. I could go about my life without all the chaos cluttering my head. 

I’ve never tried to trap the Light in anything except my hair before because I couldn’t concentrate enough to do it, but I think I’m ready now. The kids and apprentices are gone. I can make use of this time and find a way to succeed. 

I place the sketches back on Nerdanel’s desk and race downstairs to her studio, where she’s sitting at her pottery wheel with her hands and arms covered in wet clay. She’s been working on a piece to accompany a statue she’s carving and appears to be in a foul mood, her face flushed and muscles taut. 

Nevertheless, I enter the room and cry, “I need to visit the Trees! I have an idea that might help me, but it requires the mingled Light.”

“Arggh!” Nerdanel scowls as a lump of clay flies off the wheel and splatters us both with slip. “I can’t get the stupid thing centered today!”

“I’m going to visit the Trees,” I say.

Nerdanel, still seething, lifts her fiery gaze to face me. “Right now?”

“I don’t see any reason to wait.”

“What exactly are you planning to do there?” 

I shrug. “Heal?”

“The Light won’t cure you,” Nerdanel reminds me. “That’s not how it works. It just numbs the pain for a while.”

That’s a fact I’ll never understand. If Aman is called the Undying Lands, then why shouldn’t the Light heal and restore? Why can’t it provide more than soothing energy? Why did the Valar create the Trees to provide light and comfort, but not as a tool to heal the marrings of Arda? Why did they bring us to Aman instead of healing the world?

I twist the edge of my tunic around my finger. “If I can figure out a way to harness the Light and put it in a necklace or a bracelet or something, people could be in the presence of saturated, mingled Light all the time and the effects might be just as good as a cure.”

Nerdanel squints at me and starts cleaning off her wheel with a sponge. “Do whatever you think is best. Just promise me you’ll come home before the apprentices return. And don’t you dare go lie down with your mother in Lórien.”

“I wouldn’t dare,” I reply truthfully.

“May I ask where this sudden fit of inspiration came from?”

“Carnistir did a sketch of the Tree dust entangling itself in Artanis’s hair.”

Nerdanel jerks her head upright. “I thought you were going to stop obsessing over that.”

“It’s not about her hair!” I protest. “The drawing inspired me, that’s all.”

“That better be all. I don’t want to hear rumors of a certain uncle getting too close to a certain little girl.”

“I’m not that sort of creep!”

Her eyes flash. “Then make sure it looks that way.”

“I won’t be anywhere near Artanis! I’m going to the Trees. Alone.”

“So, I’m not allowed to join you?”

“This is a solitary project,” I explain. “I need to be alone with my thoughts.”

Nerdanel brushes some loose hair out of her face, smearing clay on her forehead. “That sounds like the opposite of what you need right now.”

“Trust me, please. I’ll come straight home when I’m done. I promise.”

“Fine,” Nerdanel huffs. “But if you don’t keep your promise so help me I’ll come to Mandos to finish the job.”

I offer her a sheepish grin. “Right, I’ll keep that in mind. I’ll see you in a few days.”

“You’d better.”

I turn to leave, but before I can step through the doorway Nerdanel calls out, “I love you!”

“I know,” I say. “I love you, too.”

I was still a young child when my father began contesting the marriage laws with the Valar. The first time he brought the matter to their court I didn’t understand what was happening, but the second time I got so upset that I couldn’t sleep. When he returned home and my nursemaid explained how I’d been behaving he got right back on his horse and took me to the Trees. We sat in the grass between them, beneath the large canopy of their branches, and let the mingled Light wash away my irritable mood. For the first time in weeks, I slept deeply for hours. Atto was so relieved that he cried. 

I never slept as much as other elflings. Not because I didn’t need it, but because it either took me forever to drift off or I was too focused on whatever I was doing to force myself into bed. I needed to sleep in a dark place with little to no noise and something to root me to the ground or contain my limbs. A heavy blanket or Atto’s arms would do. Without that, I grew distracted or nervous and ended up in tears or wandering out of my room. 

My sleeping habits haven’t changed all that much since then. I still lie awake longer than everyone else in the house and sometimes I don’t leave my workshop until the early hours of the morning. Most days I can deal with it fairly well, but now, as I stand under the Trees in all their splendor, the full weight of my exhaustion washes over me and fills my limbs with lead. My knees sink to the ground and I curl up beside Telperion’s trunk, the light from his tiny silver flowers seeping through my skin, bringing the cool, hazy peace I so desperately need. It presses down on me like a giant hand, gentle as it roots me to the earth. 

Rest , Telperion says in his crystal voice. Don’t fight.

For once, I can’t find the strength or the will to argue.

Time ceases to exist under the Trees. I slip in and out of sleep, making fruitless attempts at capturing the Light in vials, stones, and blades of grass. Singing the Light into solid matter isn't the hard part, it’s keeping it there that’s difficult. The Light is a free spirit; it doesn’t want to be trapped in a tiny space for longer than a few minutes.

Then I think, what about me? I can hold the light for much longer than anything else I’ve tried. I’m a living vessel the Light can interact with and get a response from. That has to be at least somewhat enticing. 

Swallowing my nerves, I lie down beneath the entangled branches where gold and silver live together and close my eyes to focus on the spirit of the Trees.

Can I take you home with me? I ask them. Can you stay inside me forever?

Telperion’s spirit is cool when he answers, beautiful like the snow in the North. Our Light is too strong, much stronger than your fëa. It’ll consume you. 

Then can I carry it until I find something else to put it in? 

And what on Arda could contain our Light? Laurelin asks. Her spirit is lighter, bubbly, buzzing through my limbs. It doesn’t like being caged where nobody can see its brilliance. It always breaks free.

Then I’ll create a house that won’t hide its beauty, I say earnestly. I won’t abuse your gift. I want to harness the soothing properties of your Light for myself and for others who are in pain. 

The elves already come to us for that, Telperion argues. Why would they settle for a small fraction of our Light when they could be doused in it?  

But what if they can’t travel here? I ask, rubbing my forehead with my fingers in frustration. What if something happens to you and your Light hasn’t been preserved? Not everything in Aman lasts forever. Things die. My mother died, the Northern flowers die when the ground freezes, and your Light dies on the shores of Alqualondë. The Teleri take comfort in carrying my lampstones when everything around them is dark, and that’s essentially what I want to do with your Light - make a different kind of lampstone. A medicinal lampstone. If I can’t make it here when my fëa collapses, I would be grateful to settle for a small fraction of your Light. It could make all the difference between living and dying.

So, this is about you, Laurelin accuses. Not anyone else.

I ball the end of my tunic in my hands. Is it wrong to seek respite from my pain? It doesn’t just affect me, it affects my family and apprentices and servants too. I had to send my own children away so they would be safe from my wretched tongue. If you won’t agree to do it for me, then do it for them.

But is it wise to trap something that wants to roam free? You yourself often gripe about being stuck in Aman.

Then I’ll only take the Light that’s willing to help and make it a good home - an entertaining one.  

Telperion chuckles, shaking some silver dust on my head and clothes, making me sneeze. At least your heart is in the right place. Our Light is willing to be housed, but it has high standards. It’ll only agree to stay if the house captures Arda’s beauty and can be shared with the world.

I can do that, I say, even though I don’t have a clear plan. I’ll think of something, I always do.  

Then we’ll make a deal. If you can prove that our Light can be harnessed for its “soothing properties”, as you call it, then you can come back for more. We won’t resist. But if you fail then you must let the Light go free and never tamper with it again. Do you understand?

Yes, I reply, I understand.

Then do as you must, Laurelin says. Go in peace, Fëanáro, and may Eru grant you the wisdom to complete your task. 

I cover my face with my hands, struggling against the burning in my eyes and throat. Finally, I’m going to create something that does more than reflect light. I’m going to create something more beautiful and more powerful than anything in this land save the Trees themselves.

I’m going to create something that will set me free.

The second I get home I head straight for the forge, scouring the gems in my locked storeroom for the hardest stones. Diamond would be the obvious choice, but the Light inside me shivers in disgust the moment I present it to them. It’s too common, too easy. 

One by one, I test the other gems that might be strong enough to hold the Light, and one by one, the Light rejects them. It rushes in and out of me like tongues of flame, burning the underside of my skin so it becomes raw and sore. Finding an appropriate gemstone is no longer the priority. I need to find a new temporary vessel. 

I close my eyes to think, focusing on the way my fëa nudges the Light and clearing my brain of the unhelpful thoughts, when I realize that the answer is still inside me. It’s my fëa containing the Light, not my physical hröa. If I can separate a piece of my fëa from my hröa it could hold the Light in my workshop until I find a permanent vessel.

All I have to do is…die? No. I need to overcome my hröa. I need to treat my hröa like it’s a house I can leave and return to at will. I need to exert control.

I sit on the floor to concentrate, legs crossed and hands clenched firmly in my lap. With several deep breaths, I call on the Light and direct it to my hands, shaking as it crawls along my hröa down the length of my arms. It’s hot in my palms, white-hot and numbing at the same time. My heart is racing and sweat is gathering under my clothes. I need to perform the separation now, before I lose my nerve.

Holding myself up will likely be impossible if I need to completely detach my fëa from my hröa, so I grit my teeth and shift to lie on my belly, arms held palms-up on the cold stone. I let my forehead rest on the dirty floor and try to forget that my fëa and hröa are attached. The elven hröa is just a house, just a house full of rooms. The fëa is fluid. It can split up in different ways, to see different things. 

My hröa is just a house…

One part of my fëa roots itself in my hands while the rest pulls back, stretching like the horrid taffy Curvo likes to buy in Tirion. It stretches and stretches, but never breaks. 

I need to break my fëa.

I dig deeper within myself, coaxing my mind to disconnect from my hröa, refusing to accept the task as impossible. This fëa is mine, this hröa is mine, I will gain control.

Then it occurs to me, in the split second before I make the final plunge, that by mastering my hröa I’m putting myself at risk of fading, but it’s too late to pull back and suddenly I’m just my alósanwë and nothing else. I can’t see, I can’t hear, I can’t feel my hröa, I can only sense waves of energy dancing about in a million different patterns at unique intensities. The waves are dim and slow, fast and bright, bright and pliable yet hard as a rock ( Nerdanel! I decipher with pride), and at the forefront of this, overshadowing everything else, is the bright and bubbly heat of the mingled Light.

I reach for it, twisting and pulling until I exist in two different parts, one the main body of my fëa and the other a smaller piece that I shape into a pair of detached hands. I reach for the Light again with just the hands and imagine closing my fingers around it, pushing away from the main body until I feel release.

Now to reattach myself to my hröa…

This time I imagine my hröa as a piece of clothing, stepping into the legs and putting the arms on like sleeves, pulling the head on like a mask, and closing the torso like the front of a casual dress. And it works well, too, until I imagine buttoning up the front and a great weight crushes my chest. 

I open my eyes with a gasp, struggling with the concept of drawing air into my lungs. My heart feels like a ball bouncing around my chest and my stomach is cramping horribly, twisting in on itself. 

I slowly push myself upright and moan when my arms spasm from the force. Now that they’re separated, my fëa doesn’t want to work with my hröa anymore and it makes every inch of movement excruciating. 

After a few more awkward manoeuvres, I’m standing up again, staring at the evidence of my work. It hovers in front of me, pulsing with life - a swirling mass of silver and gold encased by red and white flames. 

My fëa is actually made of fire. 

“Stars above,” I whisper as Nerdanel comes running through the door.

“What in the name of all things holy is that?” she screams upon seeing the flames.

I rub the back of my neck, partly out of anxiety and partly to ease the cramps. “I used a piece of my fëa to bind the Light.”

“What?” she cries, stepping past me to observe the hovering mass of energy. She reaches out a hand as if to touch it, narrowly stopping short of the flames. “This is your fëa?”

“Isn’t it creepy?”

“It’s more than creepy, it’s outright terrifying!” Nerdanel exclaims as she whirls around to face me. Her skin and clothes are coated with stone dust, her cheeks flushed from sprinting. I want to forget about the terrifying thing I’ve done in favour of kissing every inch of her. It’s been so long since I showered her with the affection she deserves. 

“How did you even do it?” she continues, waving a hand at the flames. “I wasn’t aware you could separate pieces of your fëa! Who are you?”

“The same person I’ve always been,” I confess before doubling over with pain and nausea.

Nerdanel places a strong hand on my back. “Fëanáro?”

“I’m okay,” I gasp. “I just…I had to become a detached fëa for a minute and re-attaching myself to my hröa wasn’t the best experience.”

“Have you actually lost your mind?” she hisses. “How do you manage to do these things? How do you even think of them?”

“How does one think of anything?”

Nerdanel slings one of my arms over her shoulders and helps me to a stool. “You’re ridiculous,” she laughs thickly, stooping to plant a kiss on my forehead. “I didn’t think you’d actually bring the Light home, you stubborn fool.”

I wrap my arms around her waist and press my face into her chest. “I missed you.”

“Well, I was worried sick. You were gone for two weeks.”

“I was?”

She digs her fingers between my shoulder blades, easing some of my pain. “Uh huh. I was about to go after you.”

“I’m sorry.” It was thoughtless, leaving without a plan for my return. She was afraid she’d find me hanging from Telperion’s branches or washed up on the shore of some river. Nobody should have to imagine those things.  

“You’re what ?”

“I’m sorry!” I snap into her dusty apron. If she makes me say it again I might start crying in shame and I don’t want to suffer an emotional collapse right now. Not when I’m doing so much better. 

She chuckles. “I suppose you can make it up to me.”

“How?” I lift my head with a grin. “Do you want another baby?”

Her face flushes a deeper shade of red and she swats me across the head. “No! What would we have next? Triplets?”

“I want a baby,” I pout. I want to kiss tiny fingers and toes and hold a small, sleepy body in my arms while Telperion shines brightly through the kitchen windows. I want to nurture a child into growing tall and strong. I want to live through the exhausting chaos of raising children all over again.

“Well, you’ll have to wait for your sons to grant us some grandchildren because I’m not getting pregnant again. I don’t think either of us could handle it.” She takes my chin in one hand and kisses my lips, pulling back with a sly grin. “But I wouldn’t mind having some fun. Once you’re feeling better, of course.”

I pretend to think hard about her suggestion. “What kind of fun?”

“The rough kind,” she replies. “I want you to prove to me that you’re still alive.”

“I think I can handle a bit of wrestling.”

“But what about that?” she asks, gesturing to the ball of flames that’s hovering near my workbench. “What are you going to do with it?”

I shrug. “I’ll lock it in my storage room until I find a permanent house for the Light.”

“Will that hurt you?”

“I guess we’ll find out.”

Nerdanel pulls me back to her chest and holds on tightly. “Promise you’ll never leave your hröa again. What if you can’t get back inside next time? I don’t want to lose you.”

“You aren’t going to lose me,” I say, squeezing her so hard that she gasps. “I have the Light now. I’m going to be okay. I promise.”

By the time our sons and apprentices return I’m deep in study. I send my apprentices away again, this time to work with Mahtan, while I focus on constructing a vessel for the Light. Nobody’s allowed in the forge except for Curvo. Even Nerdanel can only peek through the windows when she comes to make sure I haven’t collapsed in exhaustion. 

Curvo eagerly takes on most of my commissions while I experiment with combining different gemstones. It’s hard and tedious work, and when I get frustrated I forge swords to work out my aggression. I set up a forge so hot that nobody but me can tolerate it, where I can hammer and sing the metal alloys into powerful new structures. Curvo can barely survive two minutes at my side before he falls ill with dizziness and nausea and hurries outside to cool down. It shouldn’t please me as much as it does, but I want to be alone with my thoughts without Curvo’s voice barging in.

Before long, I’m so engrossed in my project that everything else fades into the background. Nelyo accepts a teaching position at the university in Tirion, but I don’t sit in on any of his lectures, and I hardly notice when Pityo and Telvo disappear for weeks on end with Oromë’s Hunt. But what I do notice, because I get assaulted by his feelings everyday in the forge, is Curvo’s new relationship with Lendamë. They’re thirty-seven now, at the age where sexual and romantic urges are new and intriguing (or in some cases, utterly distressing), and while neither of them are clear on whether they’re courting or not, they’re taking full advantage of their trust in each other to do a little experimenting. 

When I was his age I hated the way adults discouraged us from playing around, but now that I’m a father myself and have the privilege of hindsight, I find that I’m not very thrilled about Curvo’s endeavours. He’s stubborn and easily blinded by his desires. If he wants something he’ll fight for it, refusing to heed anybody else’s council or his own common sense. I’m afraid he’ll end up like his mother and I, saddled with a baby while still completing his studies and adjusting to adulthood. 

Actually, I’m more than afraid. My gut is telling me that something bad is going to happen, and my gut feelings are never wrong. Something is off about Curvo and his relationship with Lendamë and if I don’t put an end to it now it’ll end in pain. Whether the pain will be the result of a baby or something else is unclear to me, but I can’t ignore how unsettled I feel everytime I’m subjected to Curvo’s daydreams. I can’t stand by and watch my foresight come true. Not when it doesn’t have to.

I seize my chance one night when I catch Curvo sneaking past the forge towards the house. He might be shorter than the average Noldo, but he’s heavyset, twice my size and packed with muscle from swinging hammers, so I don’t bother grabbing him like I would’ve when he was younger. Instead, I go for the less physical approach of jumping out from behind a tree and scaring him half to death.

“Holy mother of pearl,” he gasps, backing up into a log and nearly losing his balance. “What are you doing ?”

“Come with me.”

Curvo rubs at his frizzy hair. “What? Where? What are you doing out here?”

“I was in the forge,” I reply. “Come, I need to put out the fire.”

“I’m not helping you clean up,” he scowls, moving to step around me. “I’m going to bed.”

I cut in front of him, fingers curling around his shoulders. “I want to speak with you.”

Curvo stares at me for a moment, crossing his arms over his chest, his hair glimmering under the silver light reflecting off the leaves. The stars are out in full force tonight, but it’s hard to tell with the thick canopy above us. That’s the price Nerdanel and I paid for building in one of Tirion’s surrounding forests. 

Finally, Curvo rolls his eyes, which flash in the dim light. “Fine, but make it quick. You need to go to bed too.”

I lead him back up the path to the forge, locking the door behind us. The coal is already cooling down and it doesn’t take much to put it out. Everything else can remain as it is. I’ll just pick up where I left off in a few hours.

“So?” Curvo presses as he perches on one of the stools. “What’s going on?”

 “I want you to look at me,” I say, moving to stand in front of him. “In the eyes.”

Curvo scowls, but lifts his head. The brightness in his eyes is no different than it was before he became infatuated with his childhood friend. 

“Don’t bind yourself to her,” I find myself blurting. 

Curvo’s scowl deepens. “Whether I do or not is none of your business.”

“You’re too young,” I explain. “You’re both going through some changes-”

“Atto!” 

I take the seat across from him. “Listen to me. I mean you’re growing up and that means you might start thinking and acting a little differently. Lendamë might change. Not all childhood friends remain friends forever.”

“Yeah, I know” Curvo grumbles as he fiddles with a pair of pliers. “You didn’t keep any of your friends.”

I bite my lip. “Curvo, I know you’ve been having sex.”

“So?” he snaps, opening and closing the pliers with both hands. “It’s not like you waited until you married Ammë before you tried it.”

“No, but I wasn’t at risk of becoming a father. I wasn’t sleeping with níssi.”

He looks up in surprise. “I thought you never liked anyone except Ammë.”

“I don’t know where you got that idea from.” Varda’s stars, how could anyone believe that? I’m not exactly prim and proper.

“I don’t know…” he mumbles, turning to the pliers again. 

I fold my arms on the worktable. “I just want you to be careful. I don’t want you to make me a grandfather anytime soon. It’s much easier to finish your studies before having children, trust me.”

“Conception is intentional. We don’t intend to have a baby.”

“No, but these things can be done in a fit of passion.”

“I knew you didn’t mean to have the twins.”

I throw up my hands. “The twins weren’t an accident! How many times do we have to tell you that?”

“So, was it me?”

“No!” I cry, struggling against the burst of flames beneath my skin. “We aren’t discussing that. We’re discussing you .”

Curvo smirks. “I bet it was Carnistir.”

“Be. Careful,” I say forcefully before crashing out the door towards the house. The nerve of that kid. He isn’t wrong, but he didn’t need to throw it in my face like that. Nerdanel and I were drunk when we conceived Carnistir. We had far too much to drink at Mahtan’s 500th begetting day celebration and retreated to the forest, where we impulsively decided to beget another child. When we woke up the next day we had no recollection of the event until Nerdanel and I sensed the fëa. 

It may have been impulsive, but we wanted him and we already knew what to expect. Curvo isn't ready, and because of that, I hope to Eru that he can keep any potential baby fever at bay until he’s at least thirty years older, and that Lendamë will be long gone by then too. Because I know, without a shadow of a doubt, that their relationship isn’t meant to last and should end sooner rather than later. 

It needs to end now.

Two days later we wake up to find Curvo missing. There’s a note lying on his neatly made bed stating that he’s leaving with Lendamë and has no plans to come back.

Nerdanel and I numbly eat our breakfast with the note between us. Every bite is nauseating. We don’t speak, not even when Carnistir ventures downstairs with his sketchbook in hand. He pauses upon observing the atmosphere of the room and peers at the note. I expect him to be worried, but I’m not prepared for the blazing anger that rises up inside him.

“What did you say to him?” he fires at me. 

My blood runs cold. “I just told him to be careful. I didn’t think-”

“No, of course not!” Carnistir exclaims. 

“-he was that upset.”

“You don’t think about any of us anymore!”

Nerdanel places a hand on his arm. “Don’t jump to conclusions.”

“He just left to spite you!” Carnistir growls at me. “You should’ve left him alone!”

“Since when are you the expert on social interactions?” I shoot back.

Nerdanel groans. “Boys, please! If neither of you knew this was going to happen then he obviously planned it very carefully.”

“Maybe you did know,” Carnistir begrudgingly admits, eyes on the floor as his cheeks flush pink. “Maybe that’s why you told him to be careful.”

“I had to try,” I say quietly. “I didn’t know what he was planning, but I had to try to stop him.”

“Maybe it would’ve worked better if you actually acted like our father.”

“I’ve been working!” I exclaim defensively, stabbing my fork into my cold stew. “I’m looking for a way to prevent whatever happened before I sent you to Alqualondë!”

Carnistir makes a face. “Then it better work because so far it’s only making things worse.”

“Carnistir!” Nerdanel cries, but he just glares at her.

“I’ll stand by Atto until the end of time, but I’m not going to pretend this isn’t a fool's errand.”

I press my forehead into the heel of my hand. “I know it is. I know the Light won’t cure me. I just need it to make things more bearable.”

“I understand that, but you still need to do better,” he says. “We miss you.”

Something inside me cracks. Even when I try to make things better I just make them worse. Curvo is gone. My baby boy…the one who’s fëa came straight from my heart. What a shock that was, to produce a fëa from my very being. I wasn’t trying to do it - we called his fëa the same way we called all the others - but instead of coming from outside of us, I felt a stirring inside me, a piece of my fëa wishing for its own home. 

Like a plant dropping a seed, I shook him loose and let him settle in the embrace of our fëar, which he did without complaint. Curvo was the easiest for me to nurture - he simply needed to be held. Little Father, Nerdanel named him when I told her where his fëa came from. Atarinkë. He doesn’t know the story because we’re afraid it’ll frighten him, but at times it’s fairly obvious. People are always commenting on how much he looks and acts like me, even though Nerdanel and I made sure he wouldn’t take on the full aspect of my being. He has my colouring and Nerdanel’s build, my stubbornness and Nerdanel’s reasoning. Or at least, he did, until puberty sunk its teeth into him. Now all his reasoning has gone out the window.

We were father and son and good friends, and now I’ve driven him away. I drove him away and I didn’t even realize I was doing it. I’m driving all of them away.

Carnistir comes to the other side of the table and slides onto the bench, pressing up against my side. His hair falls loose over my shoulder, still smelling of sleep and the night air that drifts through his open window. I lean my head against his and take a shaky breath as I reach out to his fëa, gently pulling it into my grasp, holding it close to my heart. 

“You haven’t lost me,” I murmur to both him and Nerdanel, whose fëa I also bring into my embrace. “And I’ll make sure you don’t.”

I’ll schedule family time into my day if necessary. I’ll skip a day in the forge. I can’t let my obsession with the Light of the Trees continue to consume me the way it is. I need to find another way. I don’t have a choice.

I can’t lose anyone else. 

From then on I spend two days a week away from the forge, and despite the unrelenting pull of the ball of fëa and Tree Light in my workshop, things with Nerdanel and the kids get a little better. We smile at each other more often and joke around like we did before I crashed. The kids greet me affectionately, without additional irritation or anger. I’ve even started singing again while I clean the forge.

The rest helps with my work as well. Stepping back gives me time to mull things over and draw inspiration from other parts of my life. I can develop more ideas and make progress more quickly than before. 

But Curvo remains lost to us, and his absence is a gaping wound. There are days when everybody is grumpy and quick to snap. Tyelko never comes home anymore and Nelyo looks beaten down everytime he returns from Tirion. He’s been trying to find Curvo through his political connections, but nobody’s seen him or Lendamë since they left. It’s like they walked off the face of the earth.

My father and Indis say it’s not my fault; Curvo made his own decision. But I don’t believe them, and my family doesn’t contradict me.

We’re eating supper - me, Nerdanel, Carnistir, and the twins - when someone raps on the back door, their shadow visible through the curtains. I’ve been focused on my internal conversation with Carnistir, but when I allow information from additional fëa to come into focus I stand up with a start, my heart pounding wildly in my chest. Everyone turns to look at me for an explanation, but my tongue won’t form any words. Instead, I take a few steadying breaths and approach the door.

Hardly a moment passes before Carnistir’s fëa leaps in anticipation. He recognizes the person, too. He isn’t sure he can believe it.

I swing open the door and nearly burst into tears. Standing out in the silver evening, shrouded in a large black cloak, is Curvo.

“Thank Eru,” I breathe before pulling him inside. “Oh, thank Eru you’re alright.”

“Curvo!” the twins exclaim in unison as Nerdanel jumps to her feet. Carnistir remains seated, but turns his face away so Curvo won’t see the relieved tears in his eyes. 

Curvo pulls away from me, taking a step back like a frightened animal. “Don’t, um, don’t get too excited yet.”

“Don’t be so melodramatic,” I say, eagerly reaching towards him with open arms. Does he really think I can’t sense the additional fëa clinging to him? “Let’s see him.”

A deathly silence descends upon the room. Nerdanel and the twins have joined us now, forming a semi-circle around the one we thought we’d lost, fighting against the urge to tackle him and sob into his hair. We never thought he would come home.

Curvo slowly removes the pack from his shoulders and kneels on the floor, lifting off the thin cover and removing what’s inside. Even Carnistir has come over now, and he holds tightly onto my sleeve when he sees the elfling. He’s small with big ears and fine black hair, and when Curvo stands, cradling him against his chest, he emits a tiny gasp. I recognize the unpracticed rhythm of his breathing. He can’t be more than a couple of weeks old.

“Oh, Curvo,” Nerdanel whispers. “Where’s Lendamë?”

His breath hitches. He won’t look her in the eye. “She’s gone. We thought we could make it work, for Tyelpë, but…Atto was right. We weren't right for each other. We fought all the time and she didn’t want Tyelpë, so I brought him home. I didn’t know where else to go.”

“You did the right thing,” I reassure him. “You’re always welcome here.” Why didn’t I make that clear before? I didn’t want him to have a child this young because I knew it would be difficult for him, but I didn’t mean I would throw him out if he did. I could never throw my children out. And I most certainly could never turn away one of their babies. 

Curvo’s eyes fill with tears. “I thought you’d be angry. You told me it was a bad idea, but I only did it because we begot a child during a drunken fantasy and I wanted to prove you wrong…” He sniffs, pressing his cheek to Tyelpë’s downy hair. “You knew, didn’t you, Atto? You knew Lendamë was pregnant. You knew we didn’t need to be bonded to beget a child.”

“I knew that true marital bonding didn’t need to occur before begetting a child, but I didn’t know about Tyelpë,” I confess. “I had a gut feeling something was going to happen and I wanted to stop it. I didn’t know it was already too late. When did she tell you?”

“The day I left. That’s why I ran off that night. We were scared and didn’t want our families looming over us and judging our every move. We wanted a clean start. But I was so homesick…I know it sounds pathetic, but when Lendamë broke it off with me I grabbed Tyelpë and came here as fast as I could.”

Nerdanel and I share a look of concern.

“And she was okay with you taking Tyelpë?” Nerdanel asks carefully.

Curvo tightens his arms protectively around his baby. “I didn’t give her a choice. I was doing most of the work, anyway. She was starting to resent us near the end. She didn’t handle the demands of being a mother very well. I don’t think she’ll come after me. She didn’t seem too concerned when I told her I was taking him with me. I think she was a bit relieved, actually. She can go home and pretend it never happened. I’m sure she’ll come up with a decent cover story. We, um, we unbonded ourselves, so nobody will know she was married except you.”

“I thought you weren’t bonded in the first place,” Telvo says.

“Not when we begot Tyelpë. We bonded later, when we decided to marry.”

“How did you unbind your fëar?”

Curvo hesitates. “With difficulty. Let’s just say it wasn’t a clean cut.”

“We could pass him off as mine,” Nerdanel offers. “I haven’t stepped foot in Tirion in months.”

Curvo pales. “No, it’s okay. He’s mine. I want him to be mine.”

“Pass him to me,” I say, holding out my arms. “You need to eat. Have some supper and go to bed.”

As if in a trance, Curvo slowly places Tyelpë in my arms. I cradle his tiny body against my chest, marvelling at the silver tendrils of his fëa flowing around me like a curtain of gems. A gentle nudge into Curvo’s mind reveals his name to be Tyelperinquar Curufinwë. Silver-fist Curufinwë. It’s perfect. 

After Curvo polishes off two helpings of chicken and rice, I take him upstairs to help him settle in. I find the cradle in the nursery and set it up next to Curvo’s bed. The room has been swept and dusted at least once a month since he left, but otherwise we kept the door shut and didn’t use it. We didn’t want him to think we’d forgotten about him if he ever decided to come back.

I find some clean sheets and make up the bed while Curvo finishes feeding Tyelpë the bottle I fixed for him downstairs. We’re both quiet at first, but after a few minutes Curvo clears his throat and speaks in a voice that’s much too tiny for his age.

“Atto?” 

I continue tucking the sheets under the mattress. “Yes?”

“Are you okay?”

“I’m much better now that you’re home.”

“It’s just…Carnistir said you feel different.”

I frown. “How?”

“In your mind. He said something’s shifted.”

“I’ve been spending less time locked up in the forge,” I say as I pull up the covers, unable to keep the pride out of my voice. Restraining myself hasn’t been easy, but the effort has paid off. 

Curvo takes a seat on the end of the bed, holding Tyelpë against his shoulder to burp him. “He didn’t mean it in a good way, but I probably shouldn’t believe everything he says. I think he’s been trying to pry into the workings of our fëar and hröar without instruction. Maybe you should send him to train with a healer so he doesn’t do anything stupid.”

“I’ll talk to him about it,” I reassure him. I finish arranging his pillows and plop down next to him, wrapping an arm around his shoulders and kissing him on the forehead. “I was worried about you. I didn’t mean to drive you off.”

“It wasn’t your fault,” he mutters as Tyelpë lets out a bubble of air. “I was stubborn and irresponsible. I would’ve run off whether you confronted me or not. I just hope…” He sighs and looks at me with tears in his eyes. “Did I make you get sick?”

I rub his shoulder. “No, I’m okay.”

“I’m still sorry.”

“The greatest apology you ever made was walking through that door.”

“But I shouldn’t have left in the first place.”

“Yes, but it’s over now and we still love you as much as we did before.”

Curvo rests his head on my shoulder, some loose hair falling in his face. I tuck it behind his ear, brushing my fingers over his cheek - a bit thinner than it was when he left - and gently let go of him to take Tyelpë in my arms. 

“Get in bed,” I tell him. “I’ll take care of the baby. You just rest for a bit.” I’ve never seen him so discouraged. He’s exhausted. He doesn’t even fight my instructions like he would’ve a few months ago. He just crawls under the covers and lets me kiss him goodnight.

“I love you,” I whisper, and Tyelpë mewls in agreement. 

Curvo reaches up to wiggle his foot, a sleepy smile on his face. “I love you, too.”

I smile back and kiss Tyelpë on his fuzzy head before turning to leave, ensuring to cover the lampstone on the way out.

My baby is back. I think I need to find a nice place to sob this out.

Two weeks later I have three transparent globes to show for my work: small gems the size of walnuts, smooth as marbles. The insides are composed of complicated mazes of thin, transparent gemstones interspersed with tiny mirrors, and the outsides, the smooth globes, are the product of singing diamond and adamant into something remarkably hard and resistant to heat. When I tested them in the kiln and the death forge they didn’t even get hot.

But instead of eagerly filling the globes with the Light, I find myself sitting at my workbench rolling one of them beneath my finger, stalling for as long as my fëa will allow me. I’m afraid that once my fëa is whole again I’ll convince Nerdanel to have another baby and end up killing us both. Having Tyelpë in the house has done nothing to quench my baby fever. I want to pour myself into a living being, to guide them through the first stages of life by delicately entwining our fëar together, but Tyelpë is Curvo’s and not mine so I can’t satisfy that itch. 

Still, no matter what happens, I need to finish this.

Taking a deep, steadying breath, I arrange the gems in a triangle on my workbench and call my fëa to bring the Light. It comes slowly, hesitantly, burning white and blue, so hot I can feel it prickling my face before it even reaches the table. 

I direct it to hover above the gems and begin to sing, holding out my hands to catch the severed parts of my fëa. And as my fëa begins to peel away, drifting towards my outstretched fingers, my voice weaves around the particles of Light and coaxes them to enter the mazes. They don't resist. They go willingly, eagerly, curious about the shiny new rocks I’ve made for them. The Light, to my immense relief, seems to be content.

As the Light explores its new homes, my fëa continues to search out its main body of energy. It burns long streaks of red up my forearms and scorches my chest so badly that I feel nauseous from the pain. But eventually my fëa fuses together, cooling down in the process, and when it does the Light in the gems screams.

I can’t contain my excitement. I jump to my feet and bounce with my hands clasped to my chest as the Light explores the many mazes and mirrors inside the gems. The Light seeks to magnify itself, to shine brighter and with more power, and the gems, along with the remaining influence of my fëa, make it blaze like fire, shining red, white, and blue. 

I squeal like a child and rush the gems inside the house.

Curvo is at the kitchen table, feeding Tyelpë with one hand while chewing absently on a piece of bread and making notes from a book with the other. He looks up when he hears me thunder through the door, and when he sees the brilliance in my hands his eyes go wide.

“Eru almighty,” he gasps, looking from me to the hall. “AMMË! CARNISTIR! AMBARUSSA! COME HERE, YOU NEED TO SEE THIS!”

Fear and excitement follow them into the kitchen. Nerdanel first, arms covered in dried clay, then Carnistir with his night clothes still on, then Pityo in his hunting gear and Telvo close behind him, wrapped in a bathrobe with his hair still wet and dripping on the floor.

“You did it,” Nerdanel whispers, too nervous to come any closer.

Telvo pushes by his brothers to get a better look.

“You can hold one,” I tell him impatiently. I can hardly bear it, seeing them hesitate when the gems can only make them feel better and not worse.

With slow, gentle movements, Telvo closes his thin fingers around a gem, bringing it closer to his face. When the Light begins to penetrate his skin his mouth drops open.

“What?” Curvo demands. “Why are you making that face?”

Telvo holds the gem to his chest and closes his eyes, sighing with something like relief. Tears gather at the edges of his eyelids and slide down his freckled cheeks.

“They’re just gems,” Curvo says. “There’s no need to cry over them. People will really think we’re mad if the servants spread that around Tirion.”

Carnistir elbows him in the back. 

“Ow!” Curvo scowls, flinching away and dropping the bottle on the floor. Tyelpë wails in protest. “What was that for?”

“Don’t judge Telvo until you hold one yourself.”

“Why don’t you hold one?”

“I can feel it through him and Atto,” Carnistir replies calmly. “Those aren’t ordinary gems. They have power.”

Curvo practically falls out of his seat in his haste to dump Tyelpë in Carnistir’s arms and snatch one of the gems from my hand. Nerdanel follows, hesitantly taking the third one, while Pityo leans against his twin to take full advantage of the connection between their fëar. 

With all of them basking in the Light, I don’t need to hold the gems myself. Like Pityo and Carnistir, I can feed off the delight of the others.

Nerdanel is hardly breathing. “Fëanáro, they’re wonderful. How did you do it?”

“It wasn’t an exact process,” I confess a little shamefully. “It was mostly trial and error. When I figured out the process for the gems I was so afraid to lose focus that I didn’t write anything down. I can remember which gemstones I used, but not how I fit them together. It’s so convoluted that all I can sense is chaos.”

Curvo holds his globe up to the faint light of Laurelin, trying to see inside the walnut-sized stone. “What’s on the inside?”

“A series of reflective mazes and mirrors. I had to make it enjoyable for the Light, or else it would refuse to live there. Its beauty needs to be magnified, not dimmed.”

“And you’re going to make more of them?”

I hate the way my chest burns. “I’d like to, but I don’t know if I can. I don’t know if I can get it right a second time. But I’ll try. If I can prove that these ones work and that I can recreate the gems I can just take the new ones to the Trees to fill them with Light. But I don’t think…The Light is picky. I don’t know if it’ll accept being housed in the same gem structure every time, and I don’t have the brain power to spend another year experimenting with other structural arrangements.” The truth is, I’m feeling rather restless. I want to move on to other projects and work on perfecting the gems I’ve already created. I don’t want to work on perfecting the original smithing process so we can mass produce them the way we mass produce the lampstones. 

“I could help,” Curvo offers. 

“No,” I say, a little too quickly. “No, I can do it myself.” 

Without looking at me, Curvo places the gem back in my hands and returns to his spot at the table.

“It’s an independent project,” I try to explain.

Curvo ignores me and Carnistir huffs, bouncing Tyelpë in his arms. “All your projects are independent.”

Because they have to be.

Carnistir sends me a soul-crushing glare.

“Anyway,” Nerdanel cuts in with a smile, “what are you going to call these gems?”

I fiddle with the stone in my hand. It feels just as good as I thought it would, like standing in sight of the Trees themselves. “I haven’t decided yet.”

“We could call them the Silmarils,” Telvo suggests.

Radiance of pure light . An obvious name, but it feels nice on the tongue and sounds nice to the ears. A beautiful name for the three most beautiful stones on Arda.

I pull Telvo into my arms and kiss the top of his head. “I like it. We’ll call them the Silmarils, and when I’m done with them they’ll do great things.”


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]