TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Notes from the False Dawn 'Verse	MercyAnkh	2023-08-25	2023-09-16	2,373	5/?	7	1	0	47

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Mature	Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien, The Lord of the Rings - All Media Types, The Lord of the Rings - J. R. R. Tolkien, The Hobbit - All Media Types

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
[NONE]	Original Characters	Languages and Linguistics, Sindarin, Quenya, Worldbuilding, Other Additional Tags to Be Added, Rated For Violence, Threats of Violence

SUMMARY
Notes and scene sketches for the False Dawn 'verse that I am working on. Mainly linguistics, but also a place for me to put bits of backstory or other worldbuilding while I write out the actual story.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Words and Etymology: Napatlilta


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
Alatúliё meldi!
As the summary says, this is going to serve as a dumping grounds for a lot of background and worldbuilding for a fic I haven't written yet. This is mostly for myself (as my ideas are currently scattered across three different notebooks, some post-its, my notes app, and a dozen or so text messages) and for my lovely enabler and most steadfast of friends Zara_Zara so she can actually see my ideas as something other than word-vomit via text.
Edited 16 September 2023. Writing words about words is hard.


CHAPTER 1
Napatlilta and Liltayё (NQ.)
While napatlilta directly translates as from Quenya* as ‘a pair or dancers’, the term refers to a relationship between two people that is beyond the usual bonds of kinship or friendship, but is not romantic in nature. The term originates with an ancestral Arnorin tradition of battle-partners also partnering for training and athletic dances, particularly the various dances that involve the use of blades**. The connotation therein, being that your liltayё, or ‘dance partner’ is the person that you most trust; to watch your back, to anticipate your actions, with your very life. Napatlilta act in sync and in tandem; what one has sworn, their liltayё is also beholden to.

Napatlilta rarely, if ever, marry one another. If a napatlilta couple do wed, then they are no longer considered to be such. That being said, there is no taboo against such an occurrence. Simply, if a napatlilta couple do wed, then they are no longer considered to be such. This comes from the culture of the Númenoreans regarding oaths, carried on to its descendant kingdoms. In contrast to marriage, napatlilta do not swear any oaths to each other, as this would undermine the nature and core of the relationship – mutual, unconditional trust. A liltayё is someone that you choose***, constantly and continuously, to partner with: without the oath-bonds**** of a marriage.

While there is no ceremony or oaths involved in the formation of a napatlilta bond, many liltayё in the latter part of the Third Age – that is, after the sundering of the three kingdoms*****- will choose to exchange rings of steel or iron. These were regarded as tokens of affection and remembrance when separated. The rings would be braided into the hair on the left side of the face (as opposed to betrothal and wedding rings, which were braided on the right).

A note on phrasing: napatlilta is the stand-alone noun of the relationship. Specifically, it refers to the relationship itself, or to the people within it – collectively. That is: one liltayё, two napatlilta. Or: Araphor and Calará are napatlilta. Saying “napatlilta pair” is therefore redundant, as “pair” is already implied by the term itself. The singular, liltayё, is often used by the napatlilta to address each other. Often the possessive is used: nin liltayё, or liltayёnya – both translate as ‘my partner’ or ‘partner-mine’.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
* For the purposes of my worldbuilding; Arnor and its’ descendent kingdoms (though not Gondor) will be holding to Quenya rather than to Sindarin (save for the names of the line of kings).
** This tradition is attributed to Elrond’s influence on the culture of the Arnorim, and not a practice carried over from Númenor.
*** Themes of choice will be continuous and relevant in this ‘verse.
**** Oaths remain a source of caution in the descendants of Elros Tar-Minyatur, especially with their ongoing association with the Imladrim and Elrond.
***** These being Arthedain, Cardolan, and Rhudaur

I welcome any comments or questions, but again, this is primarily a place for me to dump all my ideas in some semblance of organization. Zara, please tell me what your thoughts are (although we did talk this one over recently).

Until next time, namariё!


CHAPTER 2 TITLE
Characters: Miri Dúnadan


CHAPTER 2 INITIAL NOTES
Character Bio of Miri Dúnadan of Cardolan, part 1.
Alatúliё! Here are some thoughts on Miri, an original character in the False Dawn 'verse.


CHAPTER 2
A daughter of the dúnedain nobility in the kingdom of Cardolan during the Angmar Wars, Miri’s people were already in decline before her birth. She was the granddaughter of one of the few remaining Cardolani warrior-lords, and was raised in his proud ways. Miri was a weaver by craft, but had great skill of arms and tracking, although she did not have as much passion for it. As her grandfather aged, Miri and her cousins were looked to for leadership, for the line of princes in Cardolan had failed by then. It was in this role of leadership and war that Miri first met Elladan of Rivendell.

The two became fast friends, and many wondered if they would end up as Napatlilta, or as lovers. Elladan and Miri would often seek each other’s company for battle as well as for domestic days. Elladan was well-loved by the people of Miri’s settlement for his aid, but moreso for his willingness to live among them for long years, and treat them as his own people. Above all, they cared most for the joy that he returned to Miri. The weight of her responsibilities and the ever-lengthening shadow weighed on Miri, and she was often solemn. Elladan was able to coax a smile from the dúnadan woman on even her bleakest days, and laughter on many others besides.

Elladan was in Cardolan with Miri when Imladris came under siege by the forces of Angmar in 1356 of the Third Age, and was unable to return to his home and family. Miri offered her own home to Elladan, for as long as he wanted, and he accepted. It was in this time that their close friendship began to morph into something more, and the two began to consider a romantic relationship. Elladan was only hesitant about a possible marriage because of the uncertainty of a war-torn Arnor*, and the impossibility of his family to attend. The two then compromised, and agreed to wed twice, in the manner of their respective peoples.

Another point of contention came from Miri, when Elladan spoke to her of the Choice of Lúthien that had been given to his kin. Miri was both fiercely independent and possessing a degree of foresight, felt that it would be unjust if love for her swayed Elladan to choose mortality for only her sake. So Miri asked Elladan to swear as such to her, and he swore that her presence in his life would not unduly influence the choice that laid upon him. Thus agreed, the two wed in the manner of the Arnorim, witnessed by Miri’s family and people. Some years later, their only child was born. In the manner of the Ñoldor, her amilessё** was given as Calará, meaning ‘the light of the dawn’. Miri, Elladan, and Calará would live in relative happiness against the backdrop of the Angmar Wars for the early years of Calará’s life. The Witch-King would grow frustrated with the lack of progress in the siege of Imladris, and would reinvigorate his attacks on Cardolan. Miri would fall to an infected battle wound when Calará was six years old.


CHAPTER 2 FINAL NOTES
* It was uncommon for the Eldar to wed in uncertain times, which was an ancient cultural tradition. Although it was not unheard of, and the stronger concern for Elladan was the fact that he would be unable to have his family present at his wedding.
** Mother-name, given at birth.

Thank you for reading! Please leave any comments below. Zara, what are your thoughts on Miri's character? I know she's not present in most of the actual story, but I felt she was a good character to start with because of her influence on Calará.
Namariё!


CHAPTER 3 TITLE
Songs of Arnor: The Gallows


CHAPTER 3 INITIAL NOTES
Alatúliё! Here is a piece of a song that I have adapted for use in my AU. Some of the events in the context of the song's existence in my writing is canon to the LotR universe, such as the existence of the Witch-King and the sacking of Fornost. Others are my own invention in the creation of the False Dawn AU - namely anything to do with Calará herself.


CHAPTER 3
// Oh bring me to the gallows //

// Oh bring me to my knees //

// I’ve been praying, for all my mistakes //

// And one day, oh you’ll see //

// Who I’m trying to be //

This was a prison song sung by Calará and the other dúnedain soldiers captured by the Witch-King during the fall of Fornost in TA 1974. Many of these dúnedain were hung, beheaded, and their bodies displayed as a deterrent of rebellion against the Witch-King’s occupation or retaliatory attacks by the remaining army of the northern kingdom. Verse lyrics of this song were purposely left simple and unspecific, often made up on the spot by a singer, and able to be picked up and continued by another prisoner if the first singer was silenced. The chorus was left unchanged – designed to be sung between each verse by as many prisoners as could manage.

Bring me to the gallows: a defiant call for the singer’s own execution, a demonstration that they won’t betray Arnor and that the Witch-King may as well kill them.

Bring me to my knees: a similar sentiment to the previous line, this lyric was also a ragged expression of rage and grief. The loss of Fornost was a major blow to the dúnedain – their final king fled into the wild, the queen and prince in exile, the last stronghold of Arnor sacked. The arnorin forces were shattered and Calará herself, Arnor’s Princess Valiant*, held prisoner under the Witch-King himself.

I’ve been praying, for all my mistakes: a fairly straightforward sentiment, here serves as a lament or contemplation of the events that led to the fall of Fornost and to imprisonment.

And one day, oh you’ll see // Who I’m trying to be: there are two major parts to this conclusion. The first is a call of hope, a sort of prayer or incantation that one day the dúnedain will defeat the Witch-King. The second is who or what the dúnedain are striving to be: better than the mistakes of their forebears. Alike to the early Númenoreans, before the shadow fell on the isle. Humbler than the King’s Men who were seduced by Sauron. Wiser than Isildur, who’s failure ensured the turmoil of the Third Age. Overall, a concept of cultural heritage and guilt, and being driven by the hope of doing better, despite their flaws.

A note on the occupation of Fornost by the Witch-King: He, and perhaps his lieutenants, kept the population in check by means of near-daily executions of recognizable prisoners. To torment the prisoners further, the Witch-King would keep the decisions of who will die or be tortured unknown to any but himself. This would go so far as to bring prisoners so far as to be standing in front of the crowd with a noose about their neck, only to be remanded to their cells and replaced by another prisoner in the last moment. Despite the worth of the information that she had access to in her role as a commander and her value as a political prisoner, Calará herself was tormented by the Witch-King in this way several times during her imprisonment.


CHAPTER 3 FINAL NOTES
* Calará’s legal title in Arnor. She is considered a princess, but is removed from the line of succession. Additionally, the northern kingdom places more stock by names, rather than true titles. Thus, Calará is named Araveriёnel, “Princess Valiant” in Quenya. She is never referred to as “Princess Calará” by any Arnorim.

The song chorus is from the band Poor Man's Poison, and the title is the same as it is here. I will be adapting more songs to this AU, most of them from real-life bands because I am bad at poetry and songwriting.

Zara; here's a little sneak peek into my Plot (TM) ideas for Calará during the Angmar Wars. Hope you enjoy it.

Namariё!


CHAPTER 4 TITLE
Words and Etymology: Kadobêth


CHAPTER 4 INITIAL NOTES
More words for the dúnedain to use! Now with Adúnaic!
Alatúliё! There will be more than one post today, so this note will be short. I had forgotten to mention that all entries in the 'Words and Etymology' chapters are original terms used in my own worldbuilding. I use many different sources - from the books and online, both - in research, but these terms and ideas are my own.
Happy reading!


CHAPTER 4
Kadobêth (NA.)

The storytelling tradition of the arnorin dúnedain. From the Adúnaic word ‘kado’ translated as the phrase ‘and, so’, combined with the suffix ‘-bêth’, which means ‘telling’ or ‘story’. Taken together, the whole word can be translated from Adúnaic as ‘And-so Stories’ or the nearest English equivalent, fables.

The dúnedain taught their children culture through the fall of Arnor with a strong oral history, maintaining their culture by the recitation of histories, legends, and fables. All stories were concluded with a kado verse: where the storyteller and their listeners would chorus “Kado!” (And, so!), following this, the storyteller would state their interpretation of the core lesson of their completed story.

Two popular recurring characters in the kadobêth were Adúnahin, who often served as a protagonist stand-in for the audience in lesson-heavy stories, and Grandfather Manô (or Grandfather Ghost) who serves as an in-story narrator and a sage-like teaching character, helping the protagonist to reach a solution or make a hard decision.


CHAPTER 4 FINAL NOTES
No footnotes today. Hope you enjoyed and feel free to leave comments.
Zara: this entry is going up in preparation for the next part of this series that I am currently typing. I hope you're as excited as I am!
Namariё!


CHAPTER 5 TITLE
An Arnorin Wedding Ceremony


CHAPTER 5 INITIAL NOTES
The general outline for how wedding ceremonies of the dúnedain were conducted in Arnor. The wedding of Elladan and Miri would have been held thusly.
Alatúliё meldi!
Here is a new chapter that I hurried to type for my lovely Zara. Happy belated birthday, my friend! I hope you enjoy :)


CHAPTER 5
Like the elves, the dúnedain of Arnor traditionally required a betrothal lasting at least one year. A couple would exchange silver rings at the start of this period. These rings were worn on the right index finger until the wedding was held, or the betrothal called off.

Númenorean tradition had held that a couple should marry while standing in the sea, so that the vala Ulmo – long since a favored patron of the island kingdom and its king’s ancestors – could hear the vows being spoken and bless the union. Some went so far as to believe that Ulmo would pass the couples vows to Eru Illúvatar. With the dúnedain diaspora spreading ever inland in Arda, this tradition evolved (at least among the arnorim) such that a couple may wed standing in any natural body of water. Rivers that flowed to the sea being the most common, and most favored in place of the sea itself.

Weddings in Arnor took place at dusk when Gil-Estel was visible on the western horizon. This called back to two major events in Númenorean history: the star of Eärendil guiding the first ships of the founders of Númenor to the island of Elenna, and an acknowledgement of Eärendil himself being the birth father of Elros Tar-Minyatur, the first King of Númenor. Indeed, he himself wed his wife under the watch of Gil-Estel, so that one of his fathers might witness the ceremony.

Returning to the theme of the ocean, sea water was used in another aspect of wedding ceremonies: the singё, or salt ritual. The importance of this ritual was greater in Arnor, than in Númenor, presumably due to the wedding itself no longer taking place in the ocean. Sea water would be brought to the wedding in jars by a family member of each of the couple, and poured into a single bowl at the start of the ceremony. A sprig of greenery, symbolic of the hopes of the couple for a strong and long-lasting marriage, would be dipped into the bowl of sea water by the officiant. The officiant would then anoint the brow and lips of the couple with the salt and greenery.

At this time the wedding vows were given:

I come to you willingly, to take as I am.
I promise to share in joy and in sorrow, and that together we shall chart our course.
I promise you the last dance of the night and the first look in the morning.
I promise you succor in all things, and to come to you with my hardships.
I promise to stand by your side, if you will remain by mine.
I promise you trust: to speak and to listen.
I give you my hand to hold, my bed to keep, my hearth to share, and a home in my heart.
If you come to me freely, I will take you as you are, through all the tides of this world and beyond the horizon.

Following the vows, the couple would remove their silver betrothal rings. The “first men” (or women) would collect their rings to safekeep for the remainder of the night. They would then hand their respective members of the wedding party the marriage rings. These were gold, and would be exchanged by the couple on the tips of their swords – held upright and toward their partner in a display of trust and vulnerability. Each would take the wedding ring from their partner’s sword-point and wear it on the right index finger, thus replacing the betrothal ring. The rings would be worn for the rest of the ceremony and any celebrations following the wedding. Later that night, both sets of rings (betrothal* and marriage) would be braided into the couple’s hair by their partner in the privacy of their own home. Betrothal and marriage rings were worn braided into the hair on the right side of the face. The wearing of the rings in the hair, rather than on the hand, was a matter of both custom and practicality.

After the ring exchange, the officiant would close the ceremony, asking for final blessings to the couple, and calling on the witnesses to spread the word of the union for a full year. The remaining seawater would be poured over the clasped hands of the newlyweds, and their hands bound with a length of cord**. They would remain tied together for the rest of the night through the celebrations. The dúnedain of Arnor considered this practice to be both humorous and a good-luck charm for the couple. Thus ended the wedding ceremony. It was followed by a feast and celebration – or as much of one that could be managed by the community.


CHAPTER 5 FINAL NOTES
* The betrothal rings returned to their original holder: a married dúnadan would wear the wedding band they were given by their partner, and the betrothal band that they gave to their partner (that the partner wore during the betrothal. This was regarded as a means to keep a piece of the other with you, even when separated physically.
** This tradition is speculated to have originated with the clans of men that inhabited Eriador before the establishment of the northern kingdom. As they were intermarried with, and assimilated into, the dúnedain; it stands to reason that aspects of their own ancient culture would be apparent in a ceremony so valued as a marriage.

I hope that this outline lived up to your expectations, Zara! I was very excited by your reaction to the sneak peek of the vows that I sent you. I will eventually write about wedding attire and the associated pre-wedding events that we talked about, but I wanted to get this chapter posted.

To any other readers: I am grateful for any interest in this messy little work. I am planning to have a proper story to go with all this worldbuilding eventually.
Namariё!