TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
White fire within	starlightwalking	2021-11-11	2021-11-16	16,737	5/5	82	203	37	4,079

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Explicit	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Fingon | Findekáno/Maedhros | Maitimo	Fingon | Findekáno, Maedhros | Maitimo	Mating Cycles/In Heat, Mutual Pining, First Time, Frottage, Anal Sex, Blow Jobs, Begging, Love Confessions, Idiots in Love, Anal Fingering, Bathing/Washing, Light Dom/sub, Spanking, Fisting, Rimming, Mildly Dubious Consent, (they work things out it's fine), Rough Sex, Tender Sex, Size Kink, Soul Bond, fucking idiots (idiots fucking), Quenya Names, Years of the Trees, Onnalúmë

SUMMARY
In which a fire burns hot within Maedhros, and Fingon comes to his rescue by doing deeds worthy of great praise.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Chapter 1


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
I started writing this a few months ago, before NoMe came out (shh I still haven't read past the first section don't @ me), but this fic was very much inspired by the mentions of the Onnalúmë, melotorni, and general elf sex nonsense that became available with the previews. Back when I foolishly thought it would be ready to post before the book's release, I was planning on including the tag "generously stealing concepts from a book that's not even out yet," but that's no longer applicable, lmao.

I love the "white fire within" quote to death, and I cannot BELIEVE that I'm using it as a title for THIS pile of filth instead of like, some deep introspective treatise on Maedhros' relationship with life and death and magic. But I've already used "the fire of life" as the title for a different fic, soooooooooooo.......

There are simply too many people to blame for this fic - May and Nory for being enablers, Fey for daring me to make this 13k+, everyone on Discord being too damn thirsty... needless to say, your support is MUCH appreciated, ily <3 <3 <3 <3

This fic will be 5 chapters (or perhaps 4 and epilogue; I'm not quite done editing) and I'll update when I can - but it's mostly already written, so I anticipate it will be complete around American Thanksgiving. Enjoy these horny idiots having fun with a colorful variety of sex acts!!!!

Findekáno stumbles across Russandol in a compromising situation.

some quick translations:
milt = come (i use come, seed, release, milt, etc. about equally...just for variety)
nómilt = precome (idk why but precome feels weird to me in this setting so i'll always use this instead)


CHAPTER 1
“There Maedhros in time was healed; for the fire of life was hot within him, and his strength was of the ancient world, such as those possessed who were nurtured in Valinor. [...] By this deed Fingon won great renown, and all the Noldor praised him.”

 

 

“Russo? Are you alright? You looked unwell when you rushed from the party, I thought—”

Findekáno stopped abruptly, his mouth falling open as he beheld the sight before him. Russandol had seemed so ill—and his door was open a crack, so he had thought—

But this was certainly not something Findekáno was supposed to see.

Russandol had braced himself against his bedframe, his legs spread wide and his head thrown back. He was red all over, not in the pretty way he blushed sometimes, but angry splotches dappled across his skin. His hair was a tangled mess, clearly torn from its bun and yanked on in some desperation—but despite all that, what Findekáno could not help but stare at was the sight of his hard, red cock, long and thick and weeping nómilt against his stomach. And—just below—his hole—glistening with wetness in the dim candlelight, puffy and red and already smelling somehow needy—

Findekáno quite forgot everything he’d ever known, so fast did his blood rush from his head to his groin.

“Um,” he said weakly.

Russandol’s head jerked up, and his glassy eyes cleared, revealing a deep mortification beneath. He seemed frozen in place, just as Findekáno was himself, and for a breathless moment all they did was stare at one another, utterly mesmerized.

Then Russandol let out a squeak of horror, snapping his legs closed and diving under his bedsheets. He pulled them over his head so violently that his big feet stuck out from under them, and the spell on Findekáno was broken.

The first thing he did was rather firmly close the door, then lock it for good measure. At the noise, Russandol peeked out for a moment, before hurriedly covering himself again—as if that could do anything to erase the vivid memory already taking root in Findekáno’s mind, or hide the overpowering musk that filled the room.

“I’m sorry,” Russandol croaked. “I thought I had—I didn’t realize—”

“I’m sorry,” Findekáno insisted, “I should’ve knocked, I should’ve—”

“You can go,” Russandol said, his voice cracking. “You never should have seen me like this, you can just—go—forget it ever happened—I’ll be fine, this isn’t the first time I’ve—” He cut himself off, biting his lip, as if he hadn’t meant to say so much.

“Russo,” Findekáno said faintly, as all the pieces suddenly fell into place. “This—isn’t your first...your first—heat?”

The blob under the covers shook its head. “My—my third,” he whispered. “The first time—my parents told me, they let me—well, there are herbs to soothe you and ah, books on how to take the edge off—and they had a servant go to the nightmarket for, um, tools—”

Findekáno knew how heats were dealt with; everyone learned, at the same time they were instructed on marriage and procreation. The first heat set in after bonding, usually affecting níssi before it did néri, and they rarely occurred at the same time as one’s spouse. The partner of an elf in heat gained endurance and vigor from their bond so as to allow them to match their spouse’s insatiable sexual appetite, a “pseudo-heat” as it was termed, but this abetted after coupling so they might care for their spouse’s other needs as well; for that very reason, the spiritual bond between spouses balanced their hröar so that heats rarely occurred simultaneously. And heats were generally a temporary predicament, occurring once every few years during the Onnalúmë and dwindling in frequency as the Time of the Children came to a close, until as fully mature eldar heats were only triggered in dire circumstances, a latent bodily reaction to stress or trauma.

It was exceedingly rare for an elda to go into heat without a bond—its purpose was to encourage the production of children, after all, which could not be done alone—but it did happen to an unlucky few. For those unfortunate eldar, there were the things Russandol had mentioned: books, tools (or “toys,” as they were known colloquially), and herbs to relax the hröa; and if one’s friends and family were kind and able, they would provide for one’s basic needs while granting them distance in such a difficult time.

From what Findekáno had gathered from his lessons and the whispers on the streets, heat was utterly consuming for wedded couples and unfathomably mortifying for single eldar, not to mention excruciating. An elda could not actually die from an unmanaged heat, but the sensations were so overwhelming as to be incredibly painful if not properly handled. Most unbonded eldar who experienced a lonely heat took great pains not to do so again, securing a partner before the next occurrence. The thought of Russandol having to endure such stress and pain twice—all alone—

But even the unbonded had...triggers. If Russo had no spouse—and even if he had been able to keep firm enough mental barriers to hide such a thing from everyone around him, the intensity of their staring contest only moments earlier would have shown a bond if it existed—if Russandol was unmarried, and yet still had gone into heat...

That meant there had been something—someone—who had lit a fire within him so hot that his hröa reacted without a bond. There was someone Russandol desired, someone whose name he cried in the throes of miserable passion brought on by the heat, someone—someone else. Someone who wasn’t Findekáno.

The realization struck him like a blow, more painful than Findekáno could have ever predicted. He had let himself hope, for years now, and in the past months he’d almost thought... Well, they had been growing closer, ever closer, exchanging meaningful glances and and touches, sneaking away together at family events, waxing poetic with one another to the point that Findekáno had let the word melotorno slip from his tongue and watched with a thrill as Russo’s eyes lit up in response—

But if Russandol had endured his heat twice already, a longing for Findekáno could not possibly be its source. There was someone else, someone Russandol needed so badly his hröa burned, and it was cruel to be glad that Russo did not have them at his side, for it meant only misery on his part.

Well. Even if he was not Russo’s melotorno after all, Findekáno still loved him, and he would do whatever was necessary in order to help him.

“What do you need?” Findekáno asked. “How can I help?”

Russandol moaned, shuddering the blankets off his upper body, and his eyes were bloodshot as he met Findekáno’s gaze once more. The sight of him, the smell of him set Findekáno’s blood boiling, his own suppressed desires flaring up within him—but he could not give in. Not knowing what he did now.

“Don’t,” Russandol rasped, the sorrow in his voice cutting Findekáno to the bone. “Please, Finno, I can’t— Please just go. You cannot say such things—you cannot mean them—”

“I will do whatever is in my power to help you,” Findekáno promised, even though his heart was breaking and his cock was hard. “Do you need—water? Someone to make excuses for you? Those—herbs you mentioned—”

“I need—” Another moan escaped Russandol’s throat, ending in a whine that set Findekáno’s hair on end. He even thought his nipples hardened in response. “You can’t give me what I n-need.”

Findekáno nodded hurriedly, then swiftly shook his head. “No, I mean—if it’s—” He swallowed, fighting back his own despair. “Tell me who it is, Russo, and I will find them for you. I will go to the ends of Arda and bring them here, and you will be made whole, and they will be here for you where I cannot. I...melotorno, thou art to me, even if I am not to thee, and I will do anything for thee.”

“You—can’t—” Russandol panted, sweating so hard Findekáno could smell it, and he gritted his teeth with the effort of staying still, of not pouncing upon him and licking his skin clean. Russandol gave up on such efforts, shoving his hand down into the blanket and shaking as he fisted his cock, trying to take the edge off a little, and fuck, Findekáno wanted him. If he stayed much longer, he might go into a pseudo-heat and try to fuck Russandol into loving him—he might trigger his own first heat, and leave them both in a sticky situation, unable to sate one another—

“The one I want,” Russandol whispered, his eyelids fluttering as he worked himself to climax, “does not—cannot want me. I will manage, I’ve been managing, it is only—it came on so suddenly this time, last time I could tell, I could prepare—”

“They are a fool if they do not want you,” Findekáno insisted. “Tell me, and I will explain to them, surely it can only be a misunderstanding—I cannot fathom anyone not wanting you as—” He cut himself off, biting his tongue before he could say, as I do.

“Was it someone at the party?” Findekáno wondered, his heart sinking into his stomach. If it was one of their friends, gathered to celebrate Makalaurë’s begetting day...how could he face that elda after this, knowing they were who Russandol truly loved? “Did that...was it seeing them that brought it on, this time?”

“I—ahhnghh.” Russandol shuddered and went limp; he must have come underneath the sheets. Findekáno felt dirty, like a trespasser; he really ought to leave like Russandol had begged...

“Yes,” Russandol admitted, falling back against the headboard. Already Findekáno could see the fabric over his waist tenting again, Russo’s cock filling rapidly as the heat progressed. “Yes, it was...the party, and...I did not think a touch could set me off...”

Findekáno thought back frantically to the party, trying to remember who Russandol had touched that night. He had been rather jittery, not even embracing his own brother—perhaps he had brushed someone’s hand as he made a toast—but of all the eldar there that evening, Findekáno could only recall himself as having laid a finger on Russandol, a lingering touch upon his bare forearm he wished could have been longer.

“Tell me who,” Findekáno insisted. “If they are still here, I will bring them to you—is it Aikamblotsë? Or Laurefindil?” Ai, if it was Findis’ son—if Russandol loved a cousin who was not Findekáno—

“Finno,” Russandol whispered. “Findekáno.”

Hearing his name spoken so reverently, so needily—Findekáno could have wept, if his body fluids had not also turned to sweat. He really, really needed to leave, before he lost control of himself as well.

“Please, let me help you,” he begged one last time.

Russandol rose suddenly, standing on shaky legs. The cloth fell away, revealing him in all his naked glory, the body Findekáno had fantasized about so many times. His mouth went dry as Russandol took a trembling step forward. If Russo touched him like this—if he pushed Findekáno away, sent him into his own lonely, needing spiral—

“Findekáno,” Russandol murmured. “I am so sorry. I didn’t want—it wasn’t supposed to be like this. You should have left as soon as you saw me...you should never have seen me like this in the first place...” He stopped, only inches away, so close that the scent of his hröa in heat made Findekáno go weak at the knees. “I cannot hurt you, Finno, it would kill me—and yet I am aflame, and—if I do not have you, I will surely die—”

“Russo?” Findekáno said dizzily, his vision beginning to blur, narrowing until Russandol was all he could see, hear, smell—he could almost taste the salty tang of Russo’s sweat, the slick leaking from between his legs, the milt sticky on his stomach...

“Findekáno. Melotorno.” Russandol reached out a hand, but did not touch. Even still, Findekáno could feel the heat radiating from his palm, only a hair’s breadth from his cheek. He was seized by a sudden fantasy of Russandol’s palm on his other cheeks, striking him—

He leaned closer, utterly enthralled by the hunger in Russandol’s eyes. He wanted this, wanted him, had always wanted him ever since he knew what wanting was. “Russo...?”

“I will be the end of you,” Russandol breathed, hovering on the brink of something irreversible. Findekáno’s mind turned, suddenly slow as honey, realizing—was this—did he—surely not—?

“I would have no other end,” he croaked, and leaned into Russo’s touch.

Immediately his entire hröa was aflame. They held still and silent for the briefest of moments—and then Russandol grabbed him, yanking him into a fierce, sloppy, desperate kiss. Findekáno moaned, forgetting everything he’d ever known except what it felt like to kiss that beautiful, perfect mouth, the wet heat of—of everything—

He clutched Russo tightly and tumbled him back into the bed, kissing him as if his life depended on it (and it truly felt as if it did), grinding down on his thigh, his cock chafing against his breeches.

Russandol would not let him go. Findekáno didn’t want him to, not at all, but it felt as if Russo physically could not set him free. He whined and moaned into Findekáno’s mouth, his hips bucking, and suddenly he spilled onto Findekáno’s trousers without being touched, still kissing him, devouring him.

Findekáno thought he might combust. Whatever was overcoming him, pseudo-heat or the real thing, it had enveloped him in full. He had never felt so aflame, so alive, so needy. His mind had deserted him, and all that remained was a burning fëa and a hröa utterly enslaved to its own needs.

They ought to talk about this. Findekáno wasn’t even sure that it was him Russo wanted—yes, probably, what with the way Russo was whimpering his name and sucking at his lips and tongue, but maybe—maybe he was simply a substitute for someone else, the one Russo really wanted, he still didn’t understand how he could possibly be the elda who woke this fire within him—

But the thought of separating instead of melting into one another, hröa and fëa, even just to confirm he was the one Russo wanted, was not even a consideration. All Findekáno knew was Russo and Russo and Russo and heat.

Findekáno’s skin was unbearably hot, and his clothes were suddenly a dreadful burden. As loath as he was to take his mouth off Russo’s for even a moment, he leaned back, panting heavily, and tugged ineffectually at his tunic. His hands trembled, and he growled in frustration, giving up and yanking at his breeches instead.

Then Russandol’s hands were on him, all over him, big and strong and just as desperate as his own. He tore at Findekáno’s shirt, ripping it off his body, and Findekáno moaned at the display of strength. How badly he had wanted this! How badly he wanted Russo to be rough with him, to treat him just how he had his tunic!

Russandol’s hands went to his hips, helping him fumble with his belt, and only when they’d managed to shove off his breeches, leaving him only in his underthings, did he pause for just a moment. His eyes black with lust, he stared up at Findekáno, breathing heavily, and very deliberately pressed the heel of his palm against the bulge in his smallclothes.

Findekáno keened, spasming as he fought to not lose himself entirely even at that scant touch. “Russo, Russo, please,” he babbled, not sure what he was asking for, just that he needed it.

“Findekáno,” Russandol croaked. “Finno. My Finno.” He swallowed, grinding his hand against Findekáno’s groin even as he whispered, “Are you—is this—”

“Please,” Findekáno begged again. “Ai, Russo—”

“I can’t—if we do this—” Russandol shuddered, pulling Findekáno into his lap and groping him through this last strip of cloth that separated them. “Finno, fuck, I want you—if we do this there’s no going back. I need to know you mean it—I don’t want you to, to fuck me just because you want to—to help—”

“I love you,” Findekáno sobbed. “I always have, I always will, I hoped—but you said—your heats—”

“Talk. later.” Russandol snarled, pulling him into a kiss, and then his mind collided with Findekáno’s own. He felt more than heard Russo’s words through ósanwë: Need you. NOW.

YES, Findekáno sent back, and as if they were as delicate as tissue paper Russandol tore his smallclothes off and finally took him in hand.

Findekáno lost his vision entirely as he came all over Russo’s skin, spurting milt across his broad chest and even onto his chin. Russandol groaned, following him over the edge, his own milt splashing at Findekáno’s back, and fuck, Findekáno loved him.

He was only sensitive for a moment before the heat—pseudo or not, he couldn’t tell—rushed through him again, filling his cock and making him ever more desperate. He bent to kiss Russandol, needing him more than air, and rutted against him, skin to skin. Russo didn’t let go of his cock, only opened his hand so he could thrust his own length into his grip, and when they rubbed against each other desperately Findekáno thought he might die, it felt so good.

It was—it was everything Findekáno had dreamed and more, and he wondered hazily how it could get better than this. Of course there was the burning undercurrent of the heat, forcing them on, keeping them hard and wanting; if they had come together without that biological pressure, would it be better? More intimate? Or would they never have done it at all? And if he was flying apart just from the feel of Russo’s skin on his cock, what would be like to feel his mouth? His hole? To have Russo within him?

Ai, he was big. Russandol was a large nér, much taller and broader than Findekáno, and his cock was proportionately huge. He’d imagined—but the real thing was even better—fuck, he needed Russo inside him. But, he remembered vaguely, the elda in heat needed that even more—even pairings of a nís and nér, or two níssi, had that desire, to be fucked, to be bred. That was why Russo’s hole was slick and dripping, why the hand that wasn’t squeezing their cocks together had reached down to his arse and was fingering himself urgently.

“F-Finno,” Russandol gasped. “Finno, fuck, please, please—”

“I’ve never—” Findekáno whimpered, then sank his teeth into the meat of Russo’s shoulder. The taste of salt and musk exploded on his tongue, and before he knew it he was laving Russo’s neck, drinking in his sweat, needing more, more, more.

“Finnnnnnooooo,” Russo wailed. “Need you—in me—ah, ah, fuck, don’t stop—but I need—please—”

“L-let go of me then,” he hissed. “Let me fuck you proper—let me take you—”

Russandol’s grip loosened, and he collapsed on his bed. Findekáno fell on top of him, then pushed himself up, bracing his arms on either side of Russo’s chest.

“I want—” he gasped— “I need—Russo, please—”

“Take me,” Russandol hissed. “Please, Finno, I want this, I need you—”

“Do you need me?” he rasped, trembling with the effort of holding back. “Or just—anyone? Just a cock?”

Russandol moaned, his eyes taking on a queer light. “I—” There was something swirling in his mind, just below the surface, where Findekáno could not reach, some part of him that liked being accused of needing a cock in him. Findekáno couldn’t quite examine the feeling, didn’t know why it excited him as well, but now—now he needed to know if Russo wanted him.

(He would fuck him either way. With Russo begging like this, so desperate, it would be cruel to leave him; and he did not think he could restrain himself. It was just—if it came to that, his heart would break, and he knew not what he would do after it was all over.)

“Who do you think lit the flame that started my heat?” Russandol rasped. “Who do you think stole my heart, my soul, my very breath? Whose touch, whose eyes, whose laugh drove me mad, writhing in my own bed only half-aware of what was happening to me—before you were old enough for me to even consider begging for your hröa—whose touch sparked such agony within me tonight? Whose fëa is so dear to me that I tremble to think of the destruction you would cause if I asked and you rejected me, if I begged and you took pity upon me only, if I had you for a night only or even the whole heat, only for you to leave when it was over, and ruin the most precious friendship I have ever known all because I was too selfish, too indiscreet to take care of myself quietly?”

A sob wrenched out of him, even as he spread his legs and gripped Findekáno by the waist, pushing him none-too-gently so his cock pressed clumsily against the cleft of his arse. “Finno, Kánya,” he wept. “Who is my melotorno?”

Findekáno could not take it any longer. He bent and bit at Russandol’s lips, positioning himself so he could feel the slick leaking from Russo’s hole, and drew back only so he could whisper, “Is it me, Russo? Am I the one you need? Are you mine already, before we have even joined?”

“You,” Russandol moaned. “Yours. Always, Finno, always—”

Sparks shot through Findekáno, hröa and fëa, and in that moment he knew elation and rightness as he had never known it before. Russo was his, he was Russo’s—!

“Mine,” he growled, and shoved his cock into Russo’s dripping hole.

Stars exploded behind Findekáno’s eyes. He lost all control of his hröa, rocking into Russandol’s loose, willing body with abandon, the slick slide of his cock against Russo’s inner walls the most intense feeling he had ever known. If he had not come so recently he was sure he would have spilled into Russandol immediately, and as it was, he knew it wouldn’t be long at all.

He thrust hard and fast, growling like an animal, and felt Russo grunting in response, rocking back against Findekáno with tears streaming down his red, blotchy face. He lifted his hips just a bit, and Findekáno slid even deeper inside him—so impossibly deep—he saw Russandol’s belly bulge as his cock filled him, rearranged his insides, making space for him, making Russo utterly his and his alone.

“Fuck, fuck, right there, yes, fuck, Findekáno, yes, yes, please—” Russandol whined, and Findekáno would have responded in kind, if he had not lost the power of speech altogether. Instead he kissed his lover, biting at his lips until he drew blood, and drank in the bitter taste even as he fucked harder-faster-deeper into Russandol’s hröa. He felt so impossibly close to Russo, his fëa reaching out clumsily to its mate, yearning to bond, to never leave him at all, not ever.

Russandol reached back, and Findekáno clung to him tightly. Their fëar bled together as their hröar became one, and it was too much—Findekáno was going to come, he was going to fill Russandol with his seed, he was going to bind their souls together—

He knew Russo was close, too. “Finno,” he gasped, and sent a wave of terror and elation and adoration through their new-formed connection. “W-wait? Just—for the bond—I, we should—”

Findekáno nodded deliriously, his body and soul screaming in protest as he pulled away. But he didn’t go far, for Russandol still held him close, and the second he was free of Russo’s hole he spilled all over his stomach, coating his skin with white.

Russandol was still hard. His cock spurted seed; it looked like he had come multiple times while Findekáno was inside him, and Findekáno was drenched with his lover’s come. But he was still hard, the heat consuming him, and he whispered desperately as Findekáno collapsed on top of him, breathing heavily.

“Finno—” he begged— “I need—please—”

As soon as Findekáno could move again, he pulled Russandol into a fierce kiss. “That was—amazing,” he rasped. “Great Eru, Russo, I’ve wanted you for so long—”

“Please, please, please,” Russandol begged, writhing against him, his skin red and burning, and Findekáno’s heart ached. He felt his own cock hardening again, the pseudo-heat working to keep him roused, and he felt awful for Russo, who was experiencing so much worse.

This was not, he reminded himself, the sweet culmination of a gentle love story, but a ferocious, fast fuck amid the harrowing haze of heat. There would be no cooling down, no sappy conversation. There would be only sex and heat and pain.

Well. Not so much pain, if Findekáno had anything to say about it, and he did, he reminded himself giddily. Boldly, he kissed Russandol again, then slid down and spread his lover’s legs once more, locking eyes with him and doing something he’d dreamed of since he’d first discovered it was possible.

Findekáno licked a stripe up Russandol’s cock, the musty flavor of his release making his mouth water. He moaned, laving against the weeping head, forcing another climax out of Russo. Seed exploded onto his tongue, and he drank from Russo as if he were a spring from the wells of Telperion, holy and pure—and it was, it was, for there was nothing more right than this, than them coming together at long last. Even with the agony of heat between them, Findekáno had fucked Russandol, he had made Russo come, and that was pure holiness distilled.

He opened his mouth, sucking Russandol’s cock into himself. Russo was inside him now, still pulsing weakly, and Findekáno felt dizzy and distant, his mind floating to a happy place on the borders of existence. He thrilled at the feeling of Russandol inside of him—he wondered if he could come again just from this, even without a touch to his cock—

He moaned, opening his throat to take Russo deeper, all that massive length. He couldn’t wait to feel this cock in his ass, stretching him open until he broke. He wanted that for Russo, too; the slick of the heat made it easier for Findekáno to fuck him, but he had long dreamed of working Russandol open, making his body obey, feeling him not just hot and wet but tight around his cock...

That was—if Russo would want him outside of the heat. He thought he did—from what he’d said, it would only make sense—but what if—

He couldn’t think about that right now. He needed to focus on this moment, Russo in his mouth and at his mercy. Eyes wide and watering, Findekáno stared up at his lover with adoration, drinking in just how wrecked he was, writhing and whimpering and wailing, screaming out his name as Findekáno sucked harder and he came again down his throat.

Findekáno swallowed him down with a burst of pride and satisfaction, then pulled off him with a wet pop, licking his lips clean of come. He was fully hard again, his cock nudging at Russandol’s thigh as he slunk up the bed to kiss Russo on the mouth.

“I love you,” he rasped, giddy with it. “Russo, I love thee, I adore thee, I have wanted thee for years—”

“Finno,” Russandol whined, his skin still hot, his eyes haunted. “Don’t—say such things unless you m-mean them. Is it—is it the heat? I don’t—I cannot—”

“I have not had a heat,” Findekáno declared passionately. “My love for thee is strong and pure and true. I cannot live without thee, dear Russo. If—if you do not feel the same—or only feel thus within the thrall of the heat—”

Russandol kissed him, flipping them over so he loomed over Findekáno. “Thou art my very soul, Finno,” he croaked, his silver eyes shining with a queer, intense light. “If I had thought—well—I had hoped, but—I wanted—” He screwed up his face into a grimace. “Ai, I cannot speak—the heat, it is too strong—”

“Does it not wax and wane, ebb and flow?” Findekáno asked, struggling to remember what he had been taught. “What must I do to bring thee relief?”

“It—” Russandol swallowed, sweat dripping down his neck. “With the herbs...and if I come enough times...maybe? But...” He was already so red, but somehow he managed a blush. “I think—for it to truly work—there needs to be a...a bond.”

This last was said in barely a whisper, the longing within him laid so bare that Findekáno thought he could seize Russandol by his very soul and consume him.

“I will bond with thee,” he said instantly, tears pricking at his eyes, his own desperate longing bursting forth. “Thou art my fëa also, Russandol. Wilt—wilt thou have me, meldanya?”

Russandol swayed slightly, his long, lank frame trembling. “I cannot ask that of thee now,” he said faintly. “I cannot—it would not be—we are neither of us in our right minds, Findekáno, I cannot...”

“I want this,” Findekáno begged. “Please, please, Russo, please...”

“Not—not now,” Russandol said, the effort of the words weighing him down. “Although—” He groaned, reaching down to tug at his cock. “If you—perhaps if thou—came within me?”

“Yes,” Findekáno gasped, his cock jerking. “Yes, yes—”

“Say no words,” Russandol whispered, gripping Findekáno’s shoulders and raising his body to hover over his cock. “Say nothing, or we may find ourselves unable to keep our minds apart—I need—I need thee, I want thee, but please—not yet, not yet—”

“I will say nothing but thy name,” Findekáno promised, and then Russandol sank down upon him.

At this angle, it was, if possible, even better. Findekáno let out a breathy shout, incoherently garbling something that was close to Russo’s name. Russandol moaned, his cock spurting already, his release splashing Findekáno in the face; he spluttered as some seed went into his mouth, mesmerized by the sight of Russandol writhing atop him, bouncing up and down on his cock. His face was a cross between agony and ecstasy, his movements desperate but sure, and Findekáno could barely meet his thrusts, he was so overwhelmed.

He gripped Russandol’s hips for dear life, his mind flying apart, his fëa eagerly reaching out to twine with its mate—but as soon as their spirits touched, they flinched back, remembering their promise not to bond, not yet, even though they both wanted it so very badly.

“Russandol, Russo, Russo,” he wept, and Russandol shouted out his name in return, slamming himself down onto Findekáno’s cock and clenching so hard Findekáno screamed. His hips stuttered as he thrust up into his beloved, grinding right against his sweet spot, and Russandol came in endless waves, stopping only to start again, and Findekáno came too, filling him up, claiming him.

When at last their climaxes subsided, Findekáno was so weary he could not think. Russandol whimpered as he slouched off of Findekáno’s cock, seed and slick gushing from his hole, but he was not hardening again. He closed his legs tightly, as if trying to keep Findekáno’s come inside of him, and collapsed beside Findekáno on the bed.

Findekáno drew him close, making his chest a pillow for his lover. “Russo,” he whispered, and knew not what else to say. So: “Russo,” he said again, and before he knew if Russandol had responded, he had fallen fast asleep.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 2 TITLE
Chapter 2


CHAPTER 2 INITIAL NOTES
Maitimo realizes what he's done. He handles this with about as much grace as you could expect. Luckily, Findekáno is around to talk some sense into him.

Thank you for your kind words on the previous chapter <3
Now enjoy Mae being JUST AS if not MORE dumb than Finno was last chapter :D


CHAPTER 2
As Maitimo woke, he was overcome first with a horrific wave of guilt. He was sweaty and sticky and burning beneath his skin; he’d done it again, gone into heat without meaning to, and this was worse than the first time because he knew what it meant, knew what had triggered it. At least he was home—though he wasn’t sure if that was really any better.

When he and his father and brothers had been out adventuring into the wilds of Aman and the heat had overcome him, he’d at least had time to plan. Still not enough time to rush back to Tirion, but enough to procure the necessary herbs and make arrangements that only Fëanáro and Makalaurë knew about to keep himself safe and private as his madness overtook him. That had simply been the cycle coming round again, without any specific incitement, and he could pretend that there was no person he yearned for. He was certain that his father bought that tale, at least...just as he was certain Makalaurë had not, though they had not spoken of it.

But this time... Not only had he indulged himself in Findekáno’s presence, he’d felt his heat rush onto him the moment their skin brushed together. He had fled in a daze, and the rest of the night was but a haze of awful fantasy: he knew not what had been a dream and what had been reality.

Surely it could not be real, for he would have died of mortification if Findekáno had truly caught him masturbating—but the sensations, the soreness, that felt real. Except only in his most shameful fantasies did Findekáno reciprocate his feelings, and so much of last night’s dreams, vivid as they were, had involved Finno enthusiastically fucking him into the mattress, proclaiming his love for Maitimo, begging to bond with him...and that simply could not be true.

Maitimo forced himself to open his eyes. He needed to call in a servant, or Makalaurë, or someone to fetch him food and water and draw him a bath, before the next wave of heat overtook him. He could already feel it building, though he thought he might have another hour or so yet before he was driven senseless with lust once more.

But—the moment he blinked sleep from his eyelashes, he lost himself entirely.

Findekáno was here.

Findekáno was here—with him—in his bed. Maitimo was lying on top of him, using his chest as a pillow—their hair was tangled together—they were both naked, great Eru, what had happened—

“Russo?” Findekáno murmured, cracking open a beautiful, bright blue eye. He yawned. “Oh, you’re awake...are you feeling better?”

Maitimo scrambled off the bed, falling onto the floor in a heap. He was suddenly painfully aware of how much seed was splattered all over his body, more than he had ever produced on his own even in the worst of the heat, and he felt the strangest sensation in his arse: not just heat-slick, but come, sticky and musty, dribbling down his legs from out his hole.

Findekáno’s come.

Horrified, he reached out to Finno through ósanwë—and was met with only fondness and concern. Just as quickly, he drew back into himself, probing his fëa frantically, and was relieved to find no bond.

Not yet, whispered a memory that did not quite feel like his own, a promise he was uncertain he could now keep.

Findekáno had fucked him. Findekáno had seen him, taken pity on him, taken care of him, taken him— Findekáno had come all over his chest, Findekáno had fucked his ass, Findekáno had swallowed his cock and let Maitimo ride him and allowed Maitimo to make him come inside him—

Maitimo strove to be virtuous in his dealings with his fellow Eldar. He had valiantly resisted his hopeless attraction to his far more valiant cousin for the better part of two decades. But in one night, he had ruined it all—ruined himself, ruined Finno—

“Russo?” Findekáno asked, his brows furrowed in concern.

“I’m so sorry,” Maitimo said wretchedly, unable to meet his eyes. “I’m so—this is—I never should have—”

“Nelyafinwë Maitimo Russandol,” Findekáno said sternly. “Come back up here into bed and let’s talk about what happened last night. Alright?”

Maitimo nodded dumbly, unable to refuse his command, and slunk back into bed. Immediately, Findekáno drew him close and kissed him, soft and slow, and the prickling beneath Maitimo’s skin intensified. He shuddered, knowing that if Findekáno kept touching him, they would pass that point of no return again, and Maitimo would need to be fucked until he was sated enough to sleep once more.

He drew back—but not too far back, for Findekáno’s eyes were wide and worried.

“Don’t leave me,” Findekáno begged, his firmness melting away to reveal his fear. “Please, Russo—stay?”

Maitimo nodded jerkily. “Just...if you keep touching me—it’ll start again. Sooner, I mean.”

Findekáno grimaced. “Sorry, sorry,” he said quickly.

“No, I’m sorry, I—”

“Russo? Shut up.” Findekáno glared at him, commanding once more. “I can already tell what you are going to say, and I need to cut you off immediately. Listen to me, alright? Listen to me, and then I’ll take care of you, whatever you need. Whatever.”

“Yes, Finno,” Maitimo croaked, suitably chastened—though in truth Findekáno’s tone was the opposite of chaste, at least as far as his traitorous hröa was concerned. Being told what to do by Findekáno—a thrill ran through him, and he felt his cock hardening against his will.

“I do not regret anything we did last night,” Findekáno said firmly. “I need you to believe that, Russo. It was—it wasn’t how I imagined our first time together, I must admit, but it was good. So unbelievably good. I—we had sex, Russandol!” He broke into a grin. “We had sex—I fucked you—ai, Russo, I am so happy I could fly!”

Maitimo stared at him dumbly. He knew he ought to respond—he knew he should resist, remind Findekáno of who they were to each other, but it was all so unexpected that he simply could not speak.

“I—” Findekáno reached out, as if to lay a hand on Maitimo’s knee, before drawing back. “Right. No touching. Not yet, anyway. I...” He took a deep breath. “Russandol, I meant everything I said last night. I know we went a little mad there, what with the heat and all, but I would not take any of it back. I love thee, Russandol. Thou art my melotorno, and I love thee until—until the end of Arda. If thou hadst let me, I would have bonded to thee last night, in the midst of our passions.”

“Thou...lovest me?” Maitimo repeated, joy blossoming unbidden in his soul. “Truly?”

He could only remember some of what he had heard—he could only remember some of what he himself had said. He’d had enough restraint not to force Findekáno into a bond, but what had he admitted? How foolish had he been? Had he dragged this confession out of Findekáno, had he...?

“Truly,” Findekáno promised. “Russo. You said yourself that you felt the same. Was it—” His voice trembled. “Was it only the heat? I...it was not, for me, but if you feel differently now, or you will when the heat has passed, I understand. We need not let it change things between us.”

“I want—I want things to change between us,” Maitimo blurted out. Findekáno flinched backward, and he cursed himself for his thoughtlessness. “I mean—Findekáno. Finno. Melotorno.”

Speaking that word made his fëa sing. Ai, he loved Findekáno. And if it was true—if Findekáno loved him back...

Well. Love was not unholy, was it? Not if it was true, not if it was mutual. And the heat, however wrong it felt in his hröa, was a natural thing. Perhaps...perhaps this could be a blessing in disguise.

“I want things to change,” he said, “because if they went back to how they were before, with us at a distance, hesitating to speak our hearts—” his own heart hammered— “I would be lost. I—I love thee. I need thee, not just because of the heat. Findekáno, I...I admit I cannot remember all that passed between us last night, at least not in full, but whatever I said...if it was in love for thee, it was true.”

Findekáno’s eyes brimmed bright with tears. “Russo,” he whispered. “Russo, meldo, melotorno. May I—may I kiss thee now?”

It was unwise—they really ought to clean up first, and eat something—but Maitimo simply could not resist. He nodded frantically, all but leaping into Findekáno’s lap, and let his beloved kiss him deep and slow and true, and this time he savored every moment.

At least, as long as he could. The more they kissed, the more heated it became, the more heated they became. The tickling under Maitimo’s skin built into an itching, then a burning, and soon he couldn’t help himself as he tumbled Findekáno over back onto the bed and ground against his thigh, gone hard in an instant.

“Russo,” Findekáno gasped.

“Sorry,” Maitimo panted, and before Finno could protest he added, “for—fuck—I know we need to t-talk and—clean up and—but—”

“It’s alright,” Findekáno assured, his eyes darkening with lust. “We can clean up after, we can talk after—let me take care of thee, my Russandol.”

“I need—” Maitimo moaned, throwing his head back as Findekáno took his cock in hand, coaxing the first climax of the day out of him. It wasn’t enough—it would never be enough—but the tender look in Findekáno’s eyes brought him closer to that impossible promise than he had ever come before.

“If you really think a bond would help,” Findekáno began, but Maitimo shook his head fiercely.

“I want,” he gasped, “I want to remember it clearly—when we bond—I want to know I chose it, we chose it, free of any—necessities—”

“Oh, Russo,” Findekáno croaked, and kissed him fiercely. For a moment their minds met, and that was enough to make them both spill, and Maitimo lost himself in the giddy haze of climax and love.

“Ai, Russo,” Findekáno groaned, still stroking him slowly, his other hand cupping Maitimo’s ass. Maitimo rocked back into his grip, begging without words for Findekáno to fuck him already. “I want that too, it is only—I want to help! How long—?”

“The first time—” Maitimo whimpered as Finno finally slipped a finger into his already-leaking ass— “ah, ah, Finno—the first time it was—six days—”

“Six days?!”

“The second time it was only four!” he added in a brief moment of clarity before Findekáno stretched his channel with three fingers, a feat only possible with such haste because of the heat’s pliability. “But I had suppressing herbs—”

“First item of business, then,” Findekáno hissed, “after I fuck you into coherency.”

But any semblance of coherency was wiped away by those words, by Findekáno speaking with such certainty. Maitimo had wanted nothing more than Findekáno’s cock inside him since long before his first heat, had indeed worried that if they ever did come together that Findekáno would want him on top, on those occasions he was so lost in lust he let himself pretend Findekáno would want him at all.

But now it was real, and—

Before he could lose himself in the wonder of it all, Findekáno decided he’d had enough of waiting, and jerked Maitimo down onto his cock.

Maitimo wailed as he was filled, stuffed full of cock, pleasure washing through him with such strength that he heat felt almost good for a moment. His hröa swallowed Findekáno’s length whole, sinking down to the root so quickly that he felt his insides burn, but it was a good heat, and Findekáno twitching and gasping beneath him was the most beautiful thing he had ever seen.

The night before glimmered back to him in pieces—the feeling of Finno pressing into him for the first time, taking him with wild abandon; the feeling of Finno’s hot mouth around him, his eyes wide and wondrous; the feeling of sinking down onto Findekáno, clenching and making him cry out, the feeling of being filled, filled, filled—

He came and came, and Findekáno fucked him through it. White fire consumed him like molten metal, until he could not tell if the lava in his veins was from the heat or Findekáno’s come. Did it even matter? As soon as he wondered he knew: yes, it did, for the heat was a trial and Findekáno could only ever be a blessing.

Findekáno’s burning seed flooded into him, purifying him from the inside out, and Maitimo gasped as he was reborn. Slowly the fire receded, and he slumped down on top of his lover, panting, only to find Findekáno mouthing at his lips in a sloppy kiss.

“Ai,” he croaked. “Oh...Finno...”

“More?” Findekáno asked softly, stroking his sides soothingly, like one would calm a spooked horse. Maitimo felt a spike of arousal thrust through him at the thought of being likened to an animal, but that was—somehow different from the heat, a separate need, and managed a smile for Findekáno.

“I think,” he whispered, “we could take a break now...” But he was still hard, still burning, if not as bright, and he did not move, relishing the feeling of Findekáno inside him, rocking back and forth on his cock.

Findekáno moaned. “Russo, if you want a break, you should, ah, maybe take one...instead of riding me...” Indeed, he was growing hard again inside Maitimo.

Maitimo stared at him for a moment, then fell back, embarrassed. “Sorry,” he mumbled, for all his hröa protested its removal from that blessed cock. “I didn’t mean...”

Findekáno tugged him back, kissing him firmly. “Don’t apologize,” he mumbled. “I’m taking care of you, Russo. I’ll do whatever you need of me.”

“But I—” Maitimo floundered. He was the biggest brother, the eldest cousin; he had to take care of everyone, especially Findekáno—he had been neglecting his duties, so lost in his own madness!

“May I—” Maitimo gulped, another memory rushing back to him, of Finno taking him down his throat. Maitimo was still burning, and Findekáno was hard, his cock dripping with seed, and, well—Maitimo had said they ought to clean up, hadn’t he?

“Can I take care of thee?” he asked bashfully. “Just—just for a moment?”

Findekáno’s eyes glittered. “Ai, Russo,” he murmured. “If you could only see yourself...so shy, so caring, when you’re practically begging to suck my cock...”

“P-please,” he rasped, the heat simmering through his veins. He wanted this, he wanted Finno.

“Of course, meldanya,” Findekáno agreed, caressing his cheek and gently guiding him down. “I would be honored.”

Grateful that Findekáno seemed to know exactly what he needed, Maitimo let him steer him down to his cock until his lips touched the swollen head. Reverently, Maitimo placed a kiss to it, this precious thing that had undone him since youth, if only in imagination, and more so since last night. He set about to worshipping Findekáno’s cock, licking up trails of come, savoring the bitter taste, losing himself so that his own consuming desire faded into the background.

When Findekáno was hard and shining only with spit, his fists clenching the bedsheets and his head thrown back in ecstasy, Maitimo paused to smile up at him.

“V-vanimelda,” he stammered, the pet name holy on his filthy lips. “Melotorno...”

Findekáno’s eyes refocused, and as soon as he locked gazes with his beloved, Maitimo opened his mouth and swallowed Findekáno down.

The taste of him was bitter and strong, the weight of him heavy on his tongue, and Maitimo had never felt more blissful in his life. He moaned as he took Findekáno deeper, feeling his throat open up even as his hole had, welcoming his lover inside him. He wondered if the easy slide was an effect of the heat, and only then did he realize he had come again—several times. Ah. It probably was, then. But at least this was wholly pleasurable, sending only delightful tingles through his hröa as he took Findekáno all the way to the base of his cock.

“Russo, Russo, Russo, fuck,” Findekáno groaned, bucking his hips and thrusting into Maitimo’s mouth. When he had done this for Maitimo last night, Maitimo had been no more composed; but something about the way Findekáno’s eyes glazed over, the way he reached forth without a second thought to pull Maitimo’s hair, jerking him up and down and fucking his mouth with abandon—something about all that was utterly mesmerizing, so exactly what Maitimo wanted, needed without even knowing it—it was so perfect that for the first time, he truly believed with his whole being that Findekáno loved him and wanted him and needed him, that they were suited for one another in every way.

He could not say how he communicated this to Findekáno, but he knew somehow that he had, and that was what pushed Findekáno over the edge. He panted and moaned as Maitimo swallowed around his cock, relishing the hot burst of seed burning as it descended down his throat.

His eyes rolled back into his head, and he felt lightheaded, floating, sated—as he had not been since the heat began. With a low moan of contentment, he popped off Findekáno’s cock and took a heaving breath, watching his lover’s chest rise and fall rapidly in time with his own.

“Russo, great Valar,” Findekáno croaked, his eyes fluttering. “Oh, Russo, I—that was—you are—you’re perfect.”

Maitimo felt warm all over. The heat had not left him, but it felt tamed for the moment, calmed and content; he sighed as Findekáno reached over and wiped his chin clean. He fell into Findekáno’s lap, all but purring like a cat, blissfully happy in a way he had assumed he would never be.

“Russo,” Findekáno whispered, running his hands through Maitimo’s hair. “Russo.”

“Love you,” Maitimo mumbled. “I’m...I’m alright now. I think. For a bit.” He must have come several times while he sucked Findekáno’s cock, though he had been so lost in worship he’d barely noticed. “I feel...calm, almost. I needed that.”

“That was what...?” Findekáno blushed.

He shrugged lazily. “That, and...I think the ‘waning’ you mentioned. But. Yes. Serving thee, worshipping thee...helped. So much.”

“Then let me serve thee, now,” Findekáno murmured. “May I carry thee to the bath?”

“Mmm,” Maitimo hummed, throwing his lanky arms around Findekáno’s shoulders. He shuddered in delight as Findekáno lifted him up effortlessly—he was so strong—and carried him to the washroom.

Findekáno drew a hot bath, holding Maitimo in his lap as they waited for the tub to fill, and then gently walked them into the water. Maitimo was utterly limp in his arms, letting Findekáno carefully wash him clean of sweat and seed, cleaning his hair with reverence. If Maitimo had more strength, he would have insisted on returning the favor, but he was weak as a babe, and happy to simply watch as Findekáno bathed himself.

Findekáno left no part of him untouched—though he saved his hole for last. Murmuring apologies, he gently probed his entrance, cleaning Maitimo of his seed, and Maitimo found himself whimpering and hardening at his ministrations. When Findekáno was satisfied, he withdrew his fingers, but Maitimo sobbed quietly, clinging to him and begging for more. The heat was not quite rising again, but if this need went unsated...

Findekáno listened to his incoherent mumbling with the patience of the most devout of Manwë’s Maiar. “I can’t very well fuck you again,” he said with a frown. “I just got you cleaned...”

“Please, please, Finno, please,” Maitimo begged, fumbling to jerk at Findekáno’s soft cock.

Findekáno let out a breathy groan, stiffening slowly beneath Maitimo’s hand. “Alright, just—”

But it was not his cock nudging at Maitimo’s entrance. Instead he inserted his fingers again—three at once; the heat kept Maitimo loose and stretched—feeling around inelegantly for the sweet spot inside of him. When he found it, Maitimo whined and gripped Findekáno’s cock tight, only belatedly attempting to stroke him off rather than simply holding on for dear life. Soon Findekáno got the hang of fingering him, drumming rhythmically against his sweet spot, and in no time at all Maitimo was spilling all over his recently-cleaned chest, and Findekáno joined him with a satisfied sigh.

“Let me just...” Findekáno grabbed the washcloth again and wiped them both down. He smiled at Maitimo, then kissed him suddenly, sweetly, like it was the most natural thing in the world. Maitimo wept for his beauty, for his own luck.

“We need...food,” Findekáno said, gently lifting Maitimo out of the bath. “And—your herbs.”

“Or not,” Maitimo croaked in his ear.

“What?”

He pouted, refusing to hate how clingy he had become. “What if want you to keep fucking me all day long?”

Findekáno took a shuddering breath. This close, Maitimo could feel the heat of his skin, and knew that his own hormones were working their way into Findekáno’s hröa also, tempting him.

“I promise, Russo,” he said slowly, “that I will keep fucking you. If we can make it so, thou shalt never ago a day without me inside of thee.”

Maitimo moaned, mouthing at his neck, almost wishing the heat would come back in all its strength already. Yes, he was hard and wanting, but not in the consuming way that would make Findekáno have to help him.

“But you need to take care of yourself, meldo,” Findekáno murmured. He set Maitimo down on a less messy part of the bed, frowning. “We should get these sheets changed. Can I ask Makalaurë for help? You can hide in the washroom while he’s here.”

“Finnnnnoooooo,” Maitimo whined.

“If I am going to take care of you, I will be taking care of you,” Findekáno said firmly. “Your hröa has needs other than sex, you know.”

With the heat slowly building inside him once more, Maitimo disagreed. “Finnooo...”

“If you do this for me,” Findekáno said, his eyes narrowing, “I will—I will...” He smiled wickedly. “I will see if I can fit my whole hand inside thee. Is that agreeable?”

Maitimo gaped at him, feeling his slick, stretched hole twitch at the thought. “Yes,” he gasped. “Yes, yes—”

“The heat—” Findekáno hesitated. “With the herbs, it will still take you, will it not?”

“Mhmm,” Maitimo said, still lost in the fantasy of Findekáno shoving a closed fist up his ass. Ai, he wanted that—he hadn’t even known he wanted it, but he did. “Just—not as often. Not quite as intense.”

“So you won’t hurt so much?”

“No,” Maitimo pouted, and why was he crestfallen, when before the herbs had been the only thing that kept him remotely sane? “Especially not with you.”

“We can enjoy this together, then,” Findekáno said earnestly. “If you aren’t in such pain, if you aren’t so lost you can barely remember what happens—wilt that not be better, meldanya?”

Maitimo nodded, chewing his lip. “Be quick about it, then,” he urged. “Please. I want—what you promised—”

“Be a good boy and don’t touch yourself until I get back,” Findekáno growled, his eyes darkening. “Can you do that for me, Russo?”

“Yes,” he vowed, though it seemed impossible.

But so much of this day had seemed impossible, and yet it happened anyway. Maitimo could do this. For Findekáno, he could do anything.


CHAPTER 2 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 3 TITLE
Chapter 3


CHAPTER 3 INITIAL NOTES
Findekáno gives Maitimo what he needs, in more ways than one.

I'm updating this faster than I anticipated because I have no patience, lol. Anyway, this update is for moiety <3

Content warning for this chapter for some undernegotiated kink! They sort things out though don't worry, it's all good, they just get a little carried away before having a proper conversation.


CHAPTER 3
How did you approach your new lover’s brother and confess to him the debauchery you had both gotten up to the night before? In the midst of his begetting day celebrations, too. At least Makalaurë already knew about Russo’s heats—at least he was shrewd enough that Findekáno thought it quite likely he’d guessed his feelings for Maitimo.

It did not stop him from cringing at the raised eyebrow Makalaurë gave him when he asked for a private word.

“Given that you are hastily dressed and spent the night with my conspicuously absent brother,” Makalaurë drawled, “I take it that you finally got over your foolish pining and acted on your feelings?”

“Yes and no,” Findekáno muttered, unable to meet his glinting eyes. “I—Russo...went into heat?”

Makalaurë’s face, always expressive, revealed a strange dance of emotions: first shock, then understanding, then worry, then fear, and then finally settling into sympathy. “Ai, Finno,” he sighed. “Do know that he loves you too, not just because—”

“We’ve, um, been over that,” Findekáno mumbled, more mortified than he thought he could be. “I mean—even if it is hard to believe—I just— That’s not why I’m...”

“You need some help,” Makalaurë guessed. “Have you...?”

“No.”

“Ah. I’ve only had one myself, and I had a—friend kind enough to help me through it. I don’t think Nelyo knows...” He shook his head. “But anyway: yes. Of course I will help you both.”

Makalaurë ordered him to the kitchens to get some food, and told his servant Cúlalmion to change the sheets while Russandol hid in the washroom, then went himself to procure the necessary herbs. Findekáno was beyond relieved to flee back to Russandol’s rooms when Cúlalmion pronounced them tidied up, and only blushed a little bit at the knowing look the servant cast him as he passed by carrying a tray heavy-laden with supplies.

Findekáno returned to find Russandol whimpering and biting his left hand to keep quiet—and, presumably, to stop himself from touching his throbbing, swollen cock. His skin was flushed again, his eyes wild, and Findekáno could see that the heat consumed him once more. But more than that—his right hand was occupied, slicked with his own juices and oil from an open vial on the nightstand, spreading open his hole with three long, large fingers.

Findekáno went—a little berserk at the sight. He dropped his tray of food and herbs, not caring as it toppled to the floor, and pounced on his lover, pushing him down onto the bed and biting at his lips.

“I thought I told you not to touch yourself,” he growled.

“Ah, ahhh,” Russandol moaned. “You were t-taking so long—and I—and you didn’t say where, so I thought—you meant my cock, you didn’t say I couldn’t—”

“You know what I meant,” Findekáno hissed. Brutally, he yanked Russandol’s hand out of his ass, his cock filling rapidly at the sound of his lover’s wails. He hadn’t thought he would like being rough with Russandol, but—but—

“You deserve a punishment, I think,” he rumbled, flipping Russandol over so his glorious, gaping hole was visible. But instead of inserting his finger, or indeed his whole hand as he had promised, Findekáno instead brought his palm down flat on Russo’s ass in a sharp slap.

Russandol howled. “Finno!” he cried. “Fuck, fuck, Finno—”

“Do not come until I tell you,” Findekáno snarled, dizzy with lust and power. “If you do—” He let the vague threat linger for a moment, unsure what, if anything, that punishment would be.

Russandol sobbed. “The heat, Finno, I can’t—”

“Do you want my fist or not?” Findekáno crooned, bringing down his hand again, hard.

Russandol wept as Findekáno rained blows down upon his cheeks. More than once he let out a hideous sob, his eyes rolling back into his head with the effort not to spill, a task made all the more difficult by the jerking of his cock against the fresh sheets—but eventually, Findekáno’s rush of dominance melted into a desire to care for Russo, and he pressed a wet kiss to raw, red skin of his lover’s ass.

“You can come now,” he murmured, then bent down again, this time probing Russandol’s hole with his tongue.

It was violent, the way Russandol writhed and screamed and spilled, endless jets of seed spurting from him, his hole—so loose—still managing to clench around Findekáno’s tongue. Slick gushed from his passage as it never would outside of the heat, and Findekáno drank him down, intoxicated by his release, his sour taste, the foulness of it all, relishing it.

At last Russandol stilled to only trembling, still crying softly. Findekáno’s cock was still hard, but he ignored his need, instead crawling on top of his beloved and pressing open-mouthed kisses to the back of his neck, murmuring soft praises and massaging his shoulders.

“So good, so beautiful, so perfect for me,” he whispered. “Ai, Russo, I am sorry—I should not hurt thee so...”

Indeed, as the haze of wild arousal abetted, he began to fear his own harshness. He had dreadfully mistreated Russandol—what if it had been too much, what if he’d gone too far? Could Russo ever forgive him, could he ever forgive himself—

Russandol wept incoherently, and the pit of unease inside Findekáno only deepened. Worse, he was still hard, his length pressing against Russo’s back, and it was taking all his strength of will not to scoot down just an inch and fuck Russandol into further agony.

“I’m—” He swallowed, moving to get up, terribly ashamed of himself. “I’m sorry, I really shouldn’t have—”

As he rose from Russandol’s back, he heard a soft whine of protest. “Finno,” he rasped weakly, “Finno, no—don’t go—stay— Feels good, hurts good— Please, please don’t leave me, I’m sorry, I’ll be good—”

It was impossible for Findekáno to obey such a desperate plea. Gingerly, he settled his weight back on top of Russandol, and felt his lover sigh in relief, some of the tension draining out of him.

“I will not do anything like that again,” Findekáno croaked. “It was—cruel, and not at all what you deserve—”

“Finno?” Russandol whispered. “Do you remember, this morning, when you told me to shut up and listen?”

“Umm...yes.”

“Do that for me. For now.”

Findekáno nodded bashfully and buried his face into Russandol’s mane of red hair. “Mmkay,” he mumbled, deeply ashamed.

“I—that...” Russandol sighed. “I knew you would want to punish me?” he said. “That’s—I mean, that and the heat, that’s why I touched myself when you said not to. And if I hadn’t wanted you to—to do what you what you were doing—I would have told you.”

Findekáno sniffled, fighting back tears. He was not the one to who had the right to tears, not now.

“Finno, I know I can be self-destructive at times,” Russandol admitted. “But you have to trust me in this. I will tell you if I don’t want something—I stopped us from bonding last night, didn’t I?”

“Mhm,” Findekáno mumbled, still feeling horrible. No wonder Russandol didn’t want to bond, if he was like this when his orders went unobeyed—and who was he to order Russo to do anything in the first place—

“I know what you’re thinking,” Russandol interrupted in a scolding tone. “Isn’t that what you told me? I—part of me wishes we had bonded, because then you would know how I felt, and this would all be easier. But until then—and, and it will happen, I could never let thee go—until then, we have to talk.”

“Should’ve talked before, not after,” Findekáno croaked.

“Aye, we should have,” Russandol admitted. “But I was in more of a...a state than thou wert, and I am just as much to blame. Let me assure you, Findekáno, I liked all of what you did. I goaded you into it on purpose. I don’t—” He sniffled. “I don’t know if I could’ve found it within myself to ask, if you hadn’t read my desires so easily. Perhaps the heat...it connects us, if not with a bond. Perhaps you can sense my needs.”

“Perhaps,” Findekáno murmured, the warmth of Russo’s love filling him, bolstering him, “perhaps I just know thee. And I know thou hath secrets and desires unnamed, and I wish to find them.”

“And thou didst,” Russandol agreed, reaching to twine their fingers together.

“I found them within myself, also,” Findekáno realized. “And if we are matched—if we are fated, as I believe we are—then we were made for one another. I desire what thou desirest.”

“As I for thee,” Russandol murmured. “Which—I mean—” he glanced back over his shoulder with heated eyes— “I know you want to fuck me again.”

Findekáno laughed. “Was it my hard-on that gave it away?”

“That, and—ohhh!”

His confidence restored, Findekáno sank down into his lover without asking further. Russandol let out a long, low moan of pleasure, his hips jerking as Findekáno pressed deep inside him. He was so hot, so raw—Findekáno felt tears budding in his eyes as he felt what he had done to Russo, what he had wrought upon him. He would not last long.

“I know I was—n-naughty,” Russandol gasped as Findekáno ground his cock against his most sensitive spots, “but wilt thou—”

“Yes,” Findekáno hissed, biting his shoulder. “Yes, melotorno, I shall, but first...”

He did not last long at all, barely thrusting, rather just enjoying the feeling of being within his lover. It awoke within him a deep desire for their positions to be reversed, for Russandol to be inside him, that huge cock stuffing him full and fucking him hard. Some of that spilled out as he came, and Russandol groaned in response, following him over the edge as Findekáno pressed him down into the mattress, their bodies shaking together.

“I don’t,” Russandol whispered, “the heat...I don’t know if I could—but maybe with, with a toy? Or—”

“I can wait,” Findekáno murmured. “I have waited so long, vanimelda. And I love this—I love thee.”

“Ahh,” Russandol sighed, then shivered and clenched his fists in the sheets. “Fuck, it’s still—Finno, I need—”

“The herbs!” Findekáno recalled. “And—the food! Ai, Russo, I’m sorry, I—”

“Nooo,” Russandol groaned as Findekáno pulled out and hobbled over to where he’d dropped the tray. Luckily, though it had spilled a bit, nothing had made too much of a mess, and the food was mostly salvagable.

“Eat for me, dear one, and I will give thee my fist,” he wheedled, and though he could see the pain in Russandol’s eyes, he obediently rolled over, his whole front sticky with milt and the sheets already ruined again.

“Feed me?” he asked shyly, and Findekáno smiled as he lifted a butter-coated herb to his lips. Russandol made more smacking noises than were strictly necessary, sucking on Findekáno’s fingers lewdly, driving him wild—but in a few minutes, the herbs were consumed and some of the food also, and Findekáno found he could not wait much longer.

“How long until the herbs...?” he asked.

“Don’t know,” Russandol admitted. “I’ve—never had thee to help me before. The heat will not cease, though, for some time. It will just be—subdued. I will still need thee.” He brushed a burning hand against Findekáno’s arm, whispering through ósanwë, I will always need thee.

As I will always need thee, Findekáno replied tenderly, and began to work his fingers into Russandol’s hole.

Russandol was so stretched and loose that it was ridiculously easy to fill him. Findekáno pressed three fingers into him, four, and wondered that he had arrived to his thumb already, but the moans spilling freely from Russo’s mouth and the blissed-out look in his eyes told him everything he needed to know to proceed. Taking a deep breath, overwhelmed once more with the sheer delightful impossibility of it all, he squeezed his thumb in alongside his fingers, pushing firmly—

Getting past the rim was the hard part. Russandol wept and shouted as he was stretched impossibly wide—but then the worst of it was through, and Findekáno watched with awe as Russo’s ass swallowed his hand whole. It made a lewd sucking noise as it pulled him in, and then he could only see his wrist sticking out, and Russandol’s cock spurting, and he realized he’d come too, without a touch.

“Fuck,” he moaned, “fuck, Russo—”

“Finnnnnnnmmmmmmoooo,” Russandol wailed. “Finnnnnnnn—”

Experimentally, Findekáno attempted to move his fingers—and without even trying, he pushed Russandol into another screaming climax. He couldn’t unfurl his fist, but the thought of what that uneven stretch was doing to Russo’s insides—

Slowly, he pushed his hand in further, and Russandol went utterly limp against him, sobbing with abandon. Findekáno was so lost in the feeling of his fist up Russo’s ass that he was startled when Russo clumsily grabbed his free hand and tugged it to his stomach, where Findekáno felt—he saw—

His own fist, protruding from Russandol’s obscenely stretched stomach. Tears poured down Russo’s face, and his cock leaked milt steadily: he was so beautiful, so wrecked, that Findekáno came again, overwhelmed, overwhelmed.

“I didn’t—” Russandol gasped— “I never thought—”

“Russo,” he croaked.

“Ai, F-Finno, thou art—thou hast unmade me—”

“Russo...”

“Finno, fuck—” Russandol panted, his breaths heaving, his cock twitching, still leaking seed. “I haven’t stopped c-coming in—in a minute—the heat is—destroying me—but thou hast f-found a way to m-match it—”

“Russo...” It was the only thing Findekáno could think of in his daze, so utterly consumed as he was by his beloved.

“It’s—so much,” Russandol cried, and Findekáno wiggled his fingers just to see—to feel the movement beneath his swollen belly, and with a final violent spurt of milt, he felt Russandol come one last time, then fall limp into his arms, passed out.

Extracting his fist from Russandol’s channel was not a swift or easy task, but somehow Russandol remained unconscious for it all. Findekáno stared in wonder at the gape of his hole, the mess all over his own hand, coated with his own seed. He was to overwhelmed, too shaken to even formulate a marveling thought about how this had all happened so very quickly, so very much all at once.

Then, suddenly, exhaustion overtook him as well. They had talked, and fucked, and bathed, and eaten, and herbs had been taken, and he’d done—that, and...it was time to sleep again, for all it was only midday. Vaguely, he wondered when the heat would take Russandol again, but his lover seemed truly sated this time, and Findekáno was bone-tired.

He laid down beside his beloved, his melotorno. Holding Russandol in his arms, he drifted off to a blissful sleep, content and awed and safe in the certainty that he was adored.


CHAPTER 3 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 4 TITLE
Chapter 4


CHAPTER 4 INITIAL NOTES
Maitimo's heat ends, but his relationship with Findekáno has only just begun.

This chapter is dedicated to:
1. Fey, because this is where I officially passed 13k, lol;
2. MyresLight, because the second scene was partially inspired by their lovely fic "Come Morning Light";
and 3. myself, because goddamn have I had a long fucking day


CHAPTER 4
His heat only lasted three days this time, and with the herbs and Findekáno, it never reached the manic peak he’d suffered in the past. They kept things slow and simple after their wild adventure with fisting, and Maitimo felt present enough to truly enjoy the wonder of having Findekáno at last, of coming to know him in such intimate ways. He wept for it, sometimes, all the love he held inside: he knew he would never cease to be amazed that Findekáno had chosen him of all people, that he was this fortunate.

The morning he woke without desire crawling under his skin was a relief—and it wasn’t. He was—he did believe that Findekáno loved him. He wouldn’t doubt Finno, not again. But there was still a part of him that feared this was all an effect of the heat, that Findekáno would change his mind now, that Maitimo couldn’t be good enough without...

And then Findekáno blinked open his blue, blue eyes and smiled at him, and Maitimo forgot whatever it was he had been afraid of.

“Good morning, vanimelda,” Findekáno murmured, and kissed him, and Maitimo couldn’t help but tear up as he kissed him back.

“What do you think we should try today?” Findekáno yawned, winding his fingers in Maitimo’s hair and tugging pleasantly. Ai, that felt good, even outside the heat. Though it wasn’t as if Maitimo had ever had a moment he didn’t want Finno, since his desire had first awoken many years ago. It just felt—controlled, now. He much preferred this.

“I don’t know,” he croaked, and blushed at the physical memory of Findekáno’s cock down his throat.

Findekáno raised an eyebrow. “Looks like you do know,” he teased.

“I just—” Maitimo didn’t know, not really, so he kissed Findekáno again, a very agreeable distraction.

“Alright, let’s do this,” Findekáno murmured against his lips. He reached for Maitimo’s cock, letting out a soft noise of surprise when he found him soft. Well—if Finno kept his hand there, he wouldn’t stay soft, but...

“Is it—?” Findekáno asked, eyes wide. “Are you—?”

“I think it’s over,” Maitimo said, a little shyly. “You don’t have to—”

Findekáno kissed him into silence. “Melotornya,” he said fondly. “I don’t have to; you’re right. But I never had to. I want to. I want you. I love you.”

Maitimo nodded, crying again, already. “I love you, too,” he rasped, and leaned into Findekáno’s touch.

It took longer this time to coax him into hardness, and longer still to draw a climax out of him. It wasn’t even all that intense, compared to the past few days, but for Maitimo to be brought to pleasure under Findekáno’s hand was a beautiful thing. When he was done, he kissed Finno in thanks, then glanced down questioningly. Findekáno was hard, but he still seemed lazy and satisfied.

“It’s alright.” Findekáno yawned, throwing an arm around him. “Leave it. You can take care of me later, if you want. Right now...I just want to hold you, and not have to worry about your heat.”

Maitimo immediately pulled him back down into the bed, covering him with his whole body, his freakish height coming in handy for once. Findekáno laughed, shaking in his embrace, then sighed happily, pressing kisses to Maitimo’s bare chest.

I love you, he seemed to say with every kiss. I love you, I love you, I love you...

And Maitimo loved him too.

 

 

It took longer than it should have, perhaps, for him to bring it up. Not quite a year they had been lovers, and Maitimo did not worry about his heat returning for another half-decade at least—but when Tyelkormo came down with his first heat (on a trip with Oromë and his Hunt, so he was very well taken care of, returning sore, dazed, and insufferably smug), his thoughts turned to concern for Findekáno.

“I don’t see the problem,” Findekáno hummed as they lazed about on Maitimo’s private balcony one summer evening. “I have you, don’t I?”

“Well, yes, of course,” Maitimo hurried to agree, “and when it happens I will take care of you—”

“Mm...I like the sound of that.”

“But—well—” He blushed. But he did that all the time around Findekáno, especially now, and so he pressed on: “I mean, I want—you should—it would be easier if we—if we...”

“Russo?” Findekáno prompted when he fell silent, something soft and knowing in his eyes.

Maitimo swallowed. “If we were bonded,” he whispered. “It would be—easier, for us both...”

“Russo, you only needed to ask,” Findekáno said gently, reaching out to squeeze his hand. “I didn’t bring it up because you were so adamant we didn’t bond...”

“I didn’t want to pressure you,” Maitimo blurted out. “I didn’t want—I didn’t want the heat clouding our minds. I didn’t want you to—to regret it, once you got to know what I was really like...”

“I want the same thing I wanted then, Russo,” Findekáno murmured. “You. Forever, always, you.”

Maitimo was crying. That, too, was something he did frequently around Findekáno, only ever for good reasons.

“I just—it won’t be easy,” he warned. You deserve better, he didn’t say, because he was selfish, and knew Findekáno finding someone better would destroy him. “I mean, you know that, but we—our fathers...”

“It’s not so bad between them right now,” Findekáno said, ever the optimist. “Maybe this would make it better.”

“Or worse,” Maitimo muttered.

“Better,” Findekáno said firmly. “Russo. Do you truly think there is anything we cannot do, if we are together?”

Maitimo ducked his head. He didn’t believe there was anything Findekáno couldn’t do—and Findekáno believed in him. So it had to be true.

“You’re right,” he whispered.

Fidnekano beamed. “I’m always right.”

“Not always,” Maitimo said, leaning into his touch.

“What?” Findekáno exclaimed in mock hurt. “When have I—”

“When thou wert afraid I did not love thee in return,” Maitimo said, and his teasing tone turned solemn and soft. “When thou art the very definition of love, to me.”

“Oh, Russo,” Findekáno breathed, and he was tearing up now, too. “Russo, wilt thou ask it? Please?”

Maitimo reached out and took his hands gravely, only shaking a little. “Findekáno Astaldo Nolofinwion,” he intoned, “love of my life, light of my fëa, hope of my heart. Wilt thou bond with me and unite our souls for all eternity under the eyes of Eru Ilúvatar?”

“Yes, yes,” Findekáno wept, and before Maitimo could say anything more he had climbed into his lap, kissing him until he couldn’t breathe, and Maitimo was so happy he finally believed in full that it must have been a good thing, after all, that Findekáno had walked in on him when he had, all those months ago.

The kiss grew more passionate the longer it went on, and Findekáno did not seem inclined to ever let him go. That was what they had promised, after all, and Maitimo was of a like mind. He was rousing swiftly, his hröa reacting to the delight of his fëa, and when Findekáno rolled his hips on top of Maitimo’s waist, he let out a choked moan.

“Now?” he croaked. “You mean for us to—really?”

“You want me to wait longer?” Findekáno demanded. “Ai, Russo—!”

“Well—I thought—traditionally—”

“Fuck tradition,” Findekáno growled, tugging at his hair. “Since when has any of this been traditional? I want you now—”

“My father will be so cross if he doesn’t get to plan the wedding—”

“Oh—oh!” Findekáno sat back, tears in his eyes. “Oh, Russo, I didn’t even think—I mean, I suppose marriage is usually the same as bonding, but we’ve been doing it all out of order, and I thought—”

“I want to marry thee,” Maitimo admitted. “That is part and parcel with bonding, is it not? Aye, perhaps not always, but I thought—”

“Of course I will marry thee!” Findekáno cried, throwing his arms around Maitimo in a hug. “Of course, yes, a thousand times yes—do you mean to have a big celebration, or—?”

“If my father has anything to say, then yes,” Maitimo sighed. “But if you would rather have something small—or even if you would rather it be private, even secret—”

“No,” Findekáno said. “I want the whole world to know you’re mine. I want everything. I want—so much, Russo, but mostly I want you. If you want to wait for a wedding...I can wait for that.” His eyes darkened. “But don’t ask me to wait for thee. I want thee inside me this very night, my promised.”

Maitimo moaned at the thought; usually, Findekáno took him, the other way around being more of a hassle to prepare, and them both greatly enjoying their customary way, but in this moment— They were not yet bonded, and wouldn’t be for some time, but he could feel Findekáno’s desire thrumming through him all the same, for it was his desire also.

“Any particular way?” he asked, pulling Findekáno back into his lap.

“I want to see thy face,” Findekáno whispered, pressing their foreheads together. “I want to see all of thee. To know I am thine.”

“As I am thine,” Maitimo promised.

They kissed long and slow and unhurried, savoring the moment, letting desire build between them. When they were both red-faced and gasping, Maitimo rose to his feet, lifting Findekáno up, and Finno wrapped his legs around his torso, still kissing him. Maitimo carried him from the balcony to the bedroom door, not caring if anyone in the gardens below saw, and paused just a moment to press Findekáno’s back against the wall, letting go so only the wall and Finno’s legs held him up.

Findekáno whimpered. “Maitimo,” he whined. “Russandol, please—”

But tonight, Maitimo wanted to tease him. “If thou wantest me inside thee,” he growled, “thou must earn it, Astaldo.”

Findekáno’s eyes went wide, and he nodded vigorously. “Anything for thee, melotorno,” he croaked.

Fire burning low in his belly, Maitimo pressed against him all the harder, his hands tangling in Findekáno’s hair. Nothing drove him so wild as this, being the only one allowed to muss that beloved hair, and he delighted in picking out each golden ribbon, knowing he would be able to braid them back in when they were done, prolong their intimacy. Findekáno squirmed beneath him, his hardness obvious against Maitimo’s stomach, but he restrained himself. They both did, for the moment.

At last Maitimo could feel Findekáno trembling, and knew it had been enough. But that did not mean he was done toying with his beloved, not at all. He wrapped his arms around Findekáno, kneading at his ass as he swept across the room and tumbled him down into the bed, Finno laughing and groaning in equal measure.

Findekáno had such a delightful ass. Maitimo had thirsted after it since before it was remotely decent, its perfect curve haunting his waking dreams. He loved to hold Finno firmly by the rear, feel the plumpness of his cheeks, sink his fingers into the meat of it and know it was all for him. His own behind was nothing too impressive, and he was ever grateful that Findekáno was obsessed with fucking him anyway. But though Finno took him more often than not, Maitimo’s hunger for his lover’s ass was always lurking beneath the surface, and he was eager to plumb its depths again tonight.

He stripped Findekáno with gentle care, ignoring his protestations to go faster, gently nipping at his ears to remind him who was in control tonight. When each item of clothing had been removed and placed aside, Maitimo set to worshipping him with his mouth, drunk on love and adoration. Even when he led their lovemaking, he could not help but lavish attention upon Findekáno; he could not help but worship this most worthy of all Eldar.

He began with Findekáno’s ears, sucking on the pointed tips in a way that made Finno whine, then moved to kiss away his budding tears. His lips, so familiar, so loved, received the same treatment, soft nips and sucks, leaving them red and swollen while not allowing Findekáno to delve his own mouth. He spent a long time worrying at Findekáno’s neck and shoulders, leaving several prominent bruises for him to proudly display on the morrow, then kissed his way up and down Finno’s arms before descending to his nipples.

Findekáno cried out as Maitimo took one nipple into his mouth, sucking it to a point, then biting none too gently. Maitimo felt his lover’s cock jerk against his thigh, and released him gently.

“Do not come until I say,” he chided. “Or else it will be you inside of me tonight.” Truly, he did not intend to deny Findekáno his desire, especially not tonight of all nights, but the threat was hardly a punishment when they would both greatly enjoy that also.

“Yes, Russo,” Findekáno whispered.

Maitimo took the other nipple into his mouth, laving at it with his tongue until it was red and raw. He sat back to catch his breath and take in the sight of Findekáno wrecked and trembling beneath him, his heart flooding with satisfaction. He had done that—he had brought Findekáno such pleasure. And such pain, which thrilled him all the more.

Next he kissed his way down Findekáno’s hard abdomen, admiring his toned muscles, and stuck his tongue into his belly button. Findekáno laughed, startled, then began to wriggle as Maitimo teased him further, blowing raspberries into his stomach like he had when Finno was very small. Fondness welled up within him, and not for the first time Maitimo was overwhelmed with how lucky he was to have this, to have him, to know him so deeply in so many ways. And Findekáno had agreed to bond with him, to marry him—ai, he was truly blessed!

“Please tell me you will not skip my cock to kiss my feet,” Findekáno begged, and, well, Maitimo might have, but he was growing impatient now as well. He grinned wickedly at his lover, his betrothed, and nuzzled his face into the soft hairs of Finno’s groin, feeling nómilt leak against his chin.

“Ai, Russo,” Findekáno gasped as Maitimo kissed up his hard, swollen shaft, slicking him with saliva, teasing the head of his cock. At last, Maitimo took mercy upon him and began to suck, bobbing his head as he took Findekáno deeper and deeper until he pushed his way down his throat and Maitimo could swallow him whole. Findekáno shouted, thrusting involuntarily, and Maitimo let him, loved it. He was made for this, made for cock, for Findekáno’s cock, and supplicant before his beloved he had never felt more fulfilled. And filled.

He drew Findekáno to the edge, but backed off as he felt his lover tense. “Not yet,” he said, pulling off and admiring the sheen of spit on his cock. Ai, he wanted that inside him—but that was not what he had promised Findekáno. Some other time. Tomorrow, perhaps, or even later this evening.

Findekáno’s cock properly attended to, Maitimo bent once more, lifting Finno’s legs over his shoulders. He kissed down Finno’s groin, ending with his face between those glorious cheeks, and for a moment he simply reveled in Findekáno’s warmth and strength.

“Russo,” Findekáno moaned. “Russandol...”

The sound of his name spoken in such a filthy tone drove Maitimo to an edge he had no desire stop himself from tumbling over. He rubbed circles on Findekáno’s hips with his thumbs as he spread his cheeks apart and licked a stripe across his quivering hole. Findekáno squeaked and tensed his thighs, trapping Maitimo’s head between them, and feeling at once powerless and dominant, Maitimo thrust his tongue into his lover’s entrance.

He worked up saliva, softening the puckered rim, prying Findekáno open like a clam hiding a precious pearl, for Finno’s pleasure was the greatest treasure of all. At last, his tongue could do little more, and Maitimo retreated, sliding his finger in place of his tongue, reaching for the vial of oil at their bedside. Findekáno gasped as he poured cool oil onto his fingers, deliberately splashing some onto his rear, and then slipped another digit inside along the one already there.

They’d done this faster, with less preparation and care, but tonight of all nights Maitimo wanted to pamper his beloved. He took his sweet time loosening Findekáno up (and Finno needed more preparation than Maitimo did, anyway, given their relative sizes...and Maitimo’s penchant for roughness, pain, which Findekáno did not crave in quite the same way), murmuring sweet praises into his lover’s ear all the while. Findekáno returned his vows with curses, demanding him to hurry up, go harder, go faster, just fuck me already—but Maitimo ignored him, delighting in his power over this wonderful nér he loved so dearly.

At last, when Maitimo could slide three long fingers in and out of him with ease and squeeze a fourth in with some more effort, he decided Findekáno was ready. But was he?

“You had damn well better be!” Findekáno snapped when he mused aloud, and Maitimo laughed, overwhelmed with affection.

“For thee, I am always ready,” he murmured, slicking himself with oil and lining up with Findekáno’s oil.

“Russandol, please,” Findekáno begged, but Maitimo had no intention of denying him any longer.

That didn’t mean he was done teasing, though.

In one smooth thrust, Maitimo entered his lover, groaning at the way Findekáno took him, so hot, so slick, so tight. Blindly, he fumbled for Findekáno’s hand, opening his mind to him, wishing they were already wed and bonded so they might share this experience more fully. The flashes of Finno’s pleasure he did pick up almost made him lose his slow resolve, reminding him how desperately he wanted to be in Findekáno’s position, to be filled and fucked and claimed. But even now, inside Findekáno, was he not owned by his lover? Finno had utter control over him, even if he allowed Maitimo to take the lead this time.

Maitimo trusted him utterly. And he would show his devotion any way he could.

He slid home, burying himself deep within Findekáno, and felt his beloved sob and shake, clutching his hands like a lifeline. “Russo,” he choked out, “Russo, ahh—you’re so much—”

Maitimo stilled. “Findekáno, beloved,” he whispered, pressing kisses to his lover’s face. “Am I too much...?”

“No, no!” Findekáno huffed. “Just—ai, meldanya...! Just go—slow, for now.”

Maitimo settled into Findekáno’s grip around him, his eyes fluttering closed as he let Finno grow accustomed to his significant girth. He moved his hips in tiny circles, jolting little sparks of pleasure out of Findekáno; out of himself, too, though that was a secondary goal. Finally, he felt Findekáno tighten the grip of his thighs around his waist and rasp out, “Russo, move.”

“As my prince commands,” he murmured, and began to rock back and forth.

He still went slow, making sweet love the way they had not had the leisure to their first few times, those maddening days of his heat. He cherished those memories, clouded with pain as they were, but when he took Findekáno he preferred some gentleness. This was under his control...though if Findekáno truly wanted something fast and rough and raw, as he sometimes did, he would of course obey.

Yet even if he was slow, he was deliberate, rocking firmly against the spot inside Findekáno that made him gasp and moan. His fingers wandered, twisting at a nipple here, tugging on an ear there, stroking Findekáno’s cock from time to time, until Finno was reduced to weeping and pleading for more, more.

Maitimo could do this for hours. A part of him wanted to lose himself in Finno, to let the world fall away and know nothing but his beloved for the rest of time. But another part of him—the one that was a being of carnal lust only—craved release, and Findekáno’s cock in his own ass as soon as possible.

“Art thou ready, vanimelda?” he whispered.

Findekáno only nodded, tears streaming down his cheeks.

Maitimo rearranged their positions a little, pulling Findekáno closer, half-upright in the bed. Then he leaned back and increased the speed of his movements, his thrusts growing faster, rougher, more erratic.

“Ai, beloved,” he moaned. “Findekáno, Kánya—”

“Russandol!” Findekáno cried. “Ai, Russo, I love thee—Russo—”

“Come with me, dearest, I love thee; spill with me, my heart, my fëa, my love—”

Findekáno wailed softly and came, tugging Maitimo along with him, and after an indeterminable moment of mutual bliss, he collapsed on top of Finno.

“Perfect,” he whispered in Findekáno’s ear as they came down from their high. “My beloved. My betrothed. Thou art perfect.”


CHAPTER 4 FINAL NOTES
i had. such a great time writing that sex scene. as much as i adore finno topping mae, mae worshipping finno really gets me 🥺🥺🥺🥺