TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Finding Meaning in Her Smile	RayByAnotherName	2024-06-01	2024-06-01	2,483	1/1	6	6	0	31

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Teen And Up Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power (TV 2022)

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Eärien/Kemen (The Rings of Power)	Kemen (The Rings of Power), Eärien (The Rings of Power)	Quenya Names, Introspection, Númenor (Tolkien), The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power (TV 2022) Season 1, During Canon, Flirting

SUMMARY
One thing Kemen had always liked about the elves was their songs. The quiet melodies that brought their stories to life. Bringing meaning to the lives and loves they could not capture in words alone. His mother had sung them to him often, when he was a child. He'd found more later. The sheet music abandoned in the Hall of Lore. Lyrics long forgotten.

With Earien's smile, her laugh, Kemen would happily create his own song. One worthy of Numenor.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Finding Meaning in Her Smile


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
This fic brought to you by procrastination and my slight obsession with possible backstories for why Kemen has a Quenyan name.


CHAPTER 1
Earien's guildmates were beginning to give him dirty looks. The guild master especially.

But if they didn't want him to lounge against the columns of their inner courtyard, they shouldn't have built benchs between them. Comfortable ones at that.

"There's talk of putting you to work, if you're going to be here so often anyway," Earien greeted him with a smile and a shake of her head. She crossed her arms, "Don't you have your own apprenticeship?"

"A hereditary one, fortunately for me," Kemen grinned and snapped the book he'd been reading shut. Looking up, he was blessed with the sight of Earien laughing as she ducked her head. Soft brown hair falling forward, cascading around her face.

Earien of Andunie was not a woman who smiled nearly enough in his opinion and Kemen was quite determined to see that problem solved.

Preferably in his presence.

It was a lovely smile after all. Brighter than any star, with an even brighter laugh to match. Twinkling in his ears, Kemen savored the sound. The bells of Numenor paled in comparison, truly.

"And if the great Chancellor Pharazon himself can't get me to work, I highly doubt your guild master can manage it," Kemen joked as he stood from his bench. Earien rolled her eyes, but took his arm when he offered.

It was evening when they got to the beach. The sun already half-set. Kemen laced his fingers with Earien's as they strolled over the sand, a comfortable silence settling over them.

"May I ask you a question?" Earien whispered, wrapping herself loosely around his arm. She pursed her lips, ducking her head against his shoulder even as she looked up at him.

Chuckling, Kemen narrowed his eyes on her playfully, "Hmm, a question that requires permission to ask." He clicked his tongue, dropping into a whisper, "Quite ominous."

"I'm merely..." Earien trailed off, brow furrowing before the word came to her, "...curious..." She tilted her head, biting at her bottom lip, "..about your name."

"Ah." Kemen hummed, nodding vaguely to himself. He wasn't surprised by the question. It was one many avoided asking him actually, but Earien was not someone who avoided things. He sighed, "It's the Quenyan word for earth."

"I know." Earien pursed her lips again, cheek pressed to his shoulder. He glanced her way. She didn't push, but her eyes remained locked on his, focused intently on his face.

Kemen laughed, a little sharper than he intended, "I'm guessing your question is why my father, who is well known for his distaste of all things Elven, if not outright disdain, named his only child using a word borrowed from the Elves?"

If he gestured with his other hand to distract from the way his voice shook, that was hardly important. Earien didn't comment besides. She simply nodded, gaze soft and open as she watched his expressions flicker over his face.

Hopefully they weren't too revealing.

"It is a source of constant ire for him," Kemen huffed, eyes rolling. A twitch tugged at his lip, a vicious smirk rising as he drawled, "When he annoys me too much, I sometimes bring it up, just to watch him stumble over his words."

"I can't imagine your father stumbling over words," Earien gaped at him, eyrs wide and a soft chuckle on her lips.

With an eyebrow arched, Kemen grinned, "Exactly." He breathed out, nostrils flaring, "He's quite difficult to argue with, never trips up. Exceptionally frustrating. Only one person I know of who's managed it."

"You?" Earien guessed, the skin around her eyes crinkling with amusement. Kemen snorted. His hand rose to his chest, fingers sprawling out as he feigned surprise, gasping dramatically.

"If only." He shook his head, "No." Kemen exhaled, hand dropping back to his side. His words much quieter, "That illustrious honor belongs solely to my mother, I'm afraid." Earien startled. She stilled entirely really, body stiff.

Understandabe really, Kemen didn't speak of her. Not ever. Nor did anyone else, if they had any sense.

The few exceptions to the unspoken rule belonged to Kemen alone, and allowed only sparringly, when he argued with his father, or his temper got the best of him. Chancellor Pharazon had exactly one weak point, and it was not Kemen, as many who tried to use him as leverage over the years had discovered.

"My father isn't the one who named me," Kemen admitted, clearing his throat as he turned his head towards the sea, "She selected it."

"Was she..." Earien stopped herself, but she did not need to finish her question for Kemen to grasp it.

There'd been rumors, when he was small, that his mother was more hostage than bride. That his father had married one of the Faithful to control the masses.

Or to placate them.

It depended rather a lot on who told the story. Whether they thought his father more ruthless or more scheming.

The result was the same regardless.

"I haven't the faintest idea what she thought of the elves," Kemen shrugged, his laughter half forced as his head fell back. It was the only answer he had.

The rumors had been sparked by his mother's death. Whether his father truly had a hand in it Kemen would likely never know, but he had certainly stomped out the rumors. With great prejudice.

He'd never had the strength to ask why, to question his father on the rumors. To find out the truth.

"She told me it was her revenge," Kemen smiled to himself. The sky stretched out above him. A warm tinge lingering on the rising dark. A faint reddish hue splashed across the deep blue. His voice cracked as he explained, "He missed my birth to campaign with some guildmembers, the way she told it, and she was not a forgiving woman."

"Your father was out drinking while your mother labored?" Earien hissed and her fingers squeezed around his. Her grip on his arm tightening.

Kemen squeezed back, sarcasm already dripping from his voice as his head lulled to the side, "A true shock from our noble chancellor indeed!"

Their eyes met and Earien frowned. He chuckled. Ducking his head, Kemen exhaled slowly. His shoulders rolled back and he brought Earien's hand to his lips.

"What can I say?" Kemen sighed, kissing her knuckles. He raised his head, smile tight as he held her gaze, "My father has always placed his duty to Numenor above all else."

Especially him. Or so it felt. Some of the time anyway. Most even.

"Your name is Quenyan as well," Kemen pointed out as their joined hands fell back between them. Earien nodded, humming softly. She hooked her chin over his shoulder. Kemen smiled, "Daughter of the sea right?" Her eyes fluttered and Kemen let his lips twist into a smirk, "Fitting, for the daughter of a captain in the seaguard."

"I've never been particularly fond of it to be honest," Earien hummed, lips turning down slightly. She dropped her cheek to his shoulder again. Her gaze falling to the ground and her free hand grazed up his arm, "A common meaning, if not a common name."

Kemen clicked his tongue, brow furrowing, "Your brother's name, Isildur, his means 'servant of the moon' does it not?" Her fingers twitched in his sleeve and he chuckled, "I'd much prefer yours, if I had to choose."

She laughed, a soft twinkling thing she muffled in the fabric of his robes, "Anarion got the the best name then, I suppose." Kemen snorted and her head rose up, eyebrow arching.

"Son of the sun?" Kemen drawled, arching his brow to mirror hers. Her lips twitched up before she pursed them, silencing herself as he shook his head, "Sounds better in Quenyan, I'll admit, but hardly enviable in my opinion."

Her gaze narrowed on his face and their steps slowed. The sun had dipped below the horizon properly now. Lights from the city sparkled above them, a few lanterns illuminated a path up from the beach. All of it the sea reflected, like stars dancing alongside them.

"You have another question now?" Kemen asked, pausing in the sand. He tilted his head back to survey the sky, now devoid of the sun's warmth and color. A perfect mirror, almost, to the sea, just as beautiful. As unfathomable.

Constellations painted on a dark canvas above them. Kemen knew their names. The stories that went with them. Most of them passed on to them from the elves, though no one liked to remember that anymore.

Earien quirked her head, a breeze catching her long hair as they turned to face the sea, "You know Quenyan."

He hummed, nodding plainly, "I do."

"This surprises me." Her eyes narrowed, he felt her gaze on his face. "Your father doesn't like the elves, doesn't trust them. Yet his son knows an Elven language?"

With a chuckle, Kemen dropped his chin. He smirked at her, "It is not the language's fault that it is Elven. Nor the books' for being written in it. " Earien furrowed her brows and he squeezed at her hand again. "They did not ask for such a fate, not any more than we did our names."

Standing on the shore of the river Siril, watching the water lap at the sand beneath their feet, Kemen exhaled slowly. The sound of his own breathing loud in his ear.

"Elros was born from love shared between a man and an elf," Kemen whispered as Earien shifted beside him, angling her body to face his, "We both trace our family lines back to him, do we not?" Kemen looked at her, bottom lip trembling, "To forsake all things Elven, would be to forsake the very blood in our veins "

She tilted her head back, chin rising as their eyes locked on one another. Earien met his gaze with sharp eyes and puckered lips, "You don't hate them? The elves?"

"Not particularly," Kemen shrugged, turning to face her properly. His free hand rose up, tucking Earien's hair behind her ear as they stood there, chests nearly touching. Her eyes trembled and Kemen let out a breathy laugh, "Perhaps my mother was as horrible an influence as some say."

"Kemen-" Earien frowned. Her face pinching before he cupped her cheek in his palm. She went silent as his thumb brushed over pale flesh.

His hands held no calluses. Not like hers. He'd done as little manual labor as he could in his life, shown less interest in the work of guilds than he had statescraft.

Unambitious. Aimless. Childish.

Pharazon had many words to describe his only son. Many of them accurate. But his father would not have suffered his presence for so long if Kemen were not intelligent. If he did not have some sort of potential.

Even if Kemen chose to waste it on endeavors his father considered feckless.

Like reading Quenyan poetry.

"What..." Earien swallowed, she bit at her lip. She stepped just the slightest bit closer, hand rising to lay against his chest, "What do you think of them? The elves, I mean, if you don't hate them."

"I think elves are arrogant," Kemen explained, watching Earien's lashes flutter. "And self-agrandizing." He huffed, head shaking, "Immortality doesn't make them better than us, it simply makes them older."

"You wouldn't wish to be immortal? To be young forever?" Earien asked him, squinting as her lips twisted, not into a smile. Kemen groaned.

"What have elves done, exactly, with their immortality?" He arched a brow, dropping his hand from her face. Kemen swept his arm towards the city, gesturing wide, "Mortality is motivation!"

Earien quirked her head, smile rising on her lips as he began to ramble.

"Elros was the first king of Numenor!" Kemen declared, laughing brightly, "He started the Hall of Lore, established our guild systems, our trade. The canals and the bridges, the very infrastructure of our cities. Our entire way of life!"

Earien stared at him, eyes wide. Her mouth fell open. Kemen stepped back into her space. He brushed his hand through her hair, the other still holding hers. Their fingers still laced together. He took a breath, chest heaving.

"And his immortal brother?" Kemen clicked his tongue, head shaking slowly, "Elrond is the errand boy of a king who's greatest general just came to us, begging for our support. *Our* ships."

Her laughter joined his then, soft and a little hesitant. A slow chuckle, "I've never thought of it quite like that," Earien's gaze swept over his face and Kemen's heart beat just a little faster.

"I think of life like a book," Kemen whispered, letting his head fall a bit closer to hers. Their foreheads nearly touching. "Life has to have an ending, to give it purpose. And if its too long it gets rather droll." He shrugged, chuckling softly, "What use is a book if no one wants to read it? If it bores anyone who tries?"

Another laugh bubbled up, bursting from her lips as a wide smile stretched across her face. The sound washed over him and Kemen sighed, savoring it.

"Well..." Earien exhaled, leaning into his touch. Their foreheads pressing together as she asked, "What sort of book, do you want your life to be then?"

Kemen grinned. Their eyes met as he licked his lips, "I'm rather hoping this chapter is a romance." She hummed, a quiet giggle escaping her lips before he brushed his own over the trembling flesh.

Earien arched up, sealing their mouths together in a proper kiss. He groaned, sinking into her. Their bodies pressing against one another, molding together. A single silhouette upon the shore, the waves crashing around the feet as their breathing grew heavy.

One thing Kemen had always liked about the elves was their songs. The quiet melodies that brought their stories to life. Bringing meaning to the lives and loves they could not capture in words alone. His mother had sung them to him often, when he was a child. He'd found more later. The sheet music abandoned in the Hall of Lore. Lyrics long forgotten.

None of them sounded even half so beautiful as the soft whisper of his name as Earien moan against his lips. Fingers slid through his hair as Kemen wrapped one arm around her waist.

With a gasp, Earien added to the chorus of quiet noises that Kemen would give anything to hear every day for the rest of his life. It was music that gave life meaning, even the elves knew that, and their love would make a beautiful song.

A song worthy of Numenor. A love to remember. Not forgotten, or ignored, like the Elvish histories turning to dust with every passing year.

Kemen had never been more confident of anything in his whole life. In Earien, even his father couldn't find fault. With Earien, the future seemed as bright as her smile.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]