TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Ideas of Light	Sylanna	2022-02-05	2022-02-05	5,272	1/1	9	34	8	462

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Teen And Up Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Fingon | Findekáno/Maedhros | Maitimo, Elemmírë/Findis (Tolkien)	Maedhros | Maitimo, Fingon | Findekáno, Elemmírë (Tolkien), Findis (Tolkien), Fëanor | Curufinwë	Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Getting Together, trans!maedhros, Fanart, Love Confessions, a bit of angst, Fёanáro is a good dad who just needs a moment, Valinor, Pre-Darkening, Supportive Parent, Quenya Names

SUMMARY
When Fingon and Maedhros work on theoretical papers about the distribution of light in Arda for their academic pursuits, they get closer than expected.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Ideas of Light


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
For starlightwalking.
I had the great pleasure of writing this fic for starlightwalking - they are an amazing author, so I recommend checking out their fics.


CHAPTER 1
Part 1: About the Distribution of Light
 

“What part of the assignment did you get?” Findekáno asked him from the side. “I am supposed to write a philosophical essay about the Trees and what their existence here means for the lands of our ancestors.”

Maitimo smiled. Their aunt and teacher Findis had given out the assignments for a greater project about the lands of the first elves. “You could always ask grandfather about what he thinks.”

“Findis will know and those words are supposed to be mine,” Findekáno sighed.

“I got the political side of the assignment. I shall write a petition to Manwё to allow a scouting party to take a ship from Alqualondё to the lands of old, to search for Elwё.”

Findekáno shuddered. “Sounds very boring.”

“It actually isn’t,” Maitimo answered. “It is also a good opportunity to hone my skills of diplomacy.”

“You must know it, oh second High Prince, third in line to the throne of Finwё,” Findekáno teased him.

It was true. After Fёanáro, Maitimo was the next in line. In peaceful Valinor, this title was only ceremonial though. Here was no danger of Finwё’s passing, as there had been in the dark lands of the other shore.

“You are a Prince yourself,” Maitimo retorted. “You should know as well.”

“Not in line for the throne, thank the Valar,” Findekáno replied. “I think I am a bit too spontaneous in nature to ever be a good king.”

“Have you met my father?”

“Not often, for some reason he seems to avoid most of the feasts at the palace. A shame, if you ask me. I would have so loved to see the next fight between your father and mine.” Findekáno grimaced. “The last time was bad enough. Maybe they both should take those lessons in politics instead.”

“It would certainly do them good. Do you already know what you are going to focus on in your essay?”

Findekáno shook his head. “Not really. I have thought of some basic points I want to go from, but not more yet. We should bounce the ideas back and forth between us, are you in?” He smiled up at Maitimo with hopeful eyes.

For all but a moment, Maitimo’s heart fluttered and he said yes to his cousin in no time.

 

Back in his room, Maitimo wondered why he could never say no to Findekáno. His cousin was such a ball of energy and the proposal of bouncing the ideas back and forth between them would only result in a lot time spent together. Which had become a bit different in the past few months, as Findekáno’s teasing had intensified. Maitimo wasn’t yet sure if it was a good or bad different, only that he found it to be a bit strange. Still, he preferred his stay at the grounds of the academy over the crowded family home.

Maitimo had told only two people why he had left his parent’s house to live at the Academy. His grandfather Finwё and Elemmírё, wife of his aunt and teacher Findis. The elleth who had married Findis some years ago, had somehow become a confidante for Maitimo. Their advice was often insightful and of immeasurable worth. When Maitimo had begun to struggle with the presence of six brothers living in the same house, she had suggested he could go and ask Finwё for a room on the grounds of the academy. Neither Fёanáro nor Nerdanel had been pleased at first, but they had allowed Maitimo to go his own way after some discussion. His father had pulled him aside even, telling him it was probably for the better, as the elves at the Academy would have more time to help him with his studies of politics and diplomacy. Maitimo had nodded, because he understood. His father’s passion lay more in crafting jewels than in politics these days, and he had three apprentices already.

So Maitimo had gotten a small apartment on the grounds of the academy, ironically almost at the same time as his cousin Findekáno. They had know each other from the feasts at the palace, of course, but hadn’t spend much time together because of their fathers’ feuds. They had become fast friends at the academy though.

 

He tried to get his thoughts into order for some time, trying to make the first notes about the assignment. Writing a petition to the Valar was no easy feat. Over the past few years, Maitimo had attended several meetings with them over some matters, but none as great as allowing passage to the continent of their ancestors. If he truly wanted to get a good grade at this assignment, the petition had to be good enough to sway the Valar. Not that they would ever be presented with it, but the wasn’t important. Maitimo wanted to do good. So, for the Valar to understand, he would need to present the reasons for the petition clearly. Which meant retelling the story of the first elves and how Elwё got lost along the journey.

 

Of course, Maitimo did not have the whole day left to work on this assignment, even though he was done with courses for today. He had actually scheduled a meeting with Elemmírё, which he thankfully remembered on time. So, he stuffed the few notes he had made into the drawer of his desk and left the room to meet with his good friend.

 

 

Part II - Kindling
 

Elemmírё was of course already there and waiting, seated on one of the comfortable chairs, a basket by her side. “Ah, Maitimo, you are early.”

“And yet you are here already. Doesn’t this mean I am late?”

She laughed and shook her head. “No. I just planned in extra time, too much of it in fact, because I wanted to bring something from the market.” She gestured at the basked by her feet.

Maitimo raised his eyebrows. “You didn’t have to bring me anything.”

“But I wanted to. It’s a bit selfish really, because I had a sudden appetite for some cake this morning.”

“You brought cake?”

“There is your smile,” Elemmírё remarked. “Yes, cake. What else did you think I would bring you? Jewels or finery you can get enough from your father and I place no such value in them.”

Again, Maitimo grinned. That much was true. Elemmírё was of the Vanyar and she had not much love for jewels in her. On occasion she had called them ‘sparkly things without the warmth of meaning’. She was a poet of sorts, a minstrel of not inconsiderable talent, even though she hardly composed anymore. Her dislike of jewels had made her courtship with Findis a bit odd in the beginning, as in that point their cultures had clashed a bit.

“What kind of cake did you bring?”

“The best,” Elemmírё promised and lifted the cloth laid over the basket. In it was a package, obviously from the best cake-maker in town, as could be seen from their mark on the paper. Elemmírё placed the delicate package on the table in front of her and began to unwrap it. In it were two slices of cake, with berries baked into it.

“And, did I manage to get your taste right?”

“You did,” Maitimo answered. “Mixed-Berry Batter Cake is one of my favourites.”

“Then dig in.”

Maitimo tool his seat across of Elemmírё and grabbed for one of the forks. The cake was delicious indeed.

[IMAGE]

[Elemmírё]

After he had eaten even the last crumb, Maitimo leant back in his seat and sighed. “This was good. I needed this after today.”

“I take it it has been a strenuous day for you.”

“It was. Findis gave out the assignments about the lands we left behind, I am sure she told you about it.”

“Which one did you get?”

“I have to petition to the Valar, to allow for a search party for Elwё.”

Elemmírё nodded. “Findis told me about it. Sound like a challenge, but one I am sure you can master.”

“Findekáno is supposed to write a philosophical essay about the light of the Trees and the absence of it in those lands.”

“Interesting, too, but I don’t think this is what was so strenuous for you today.”

“Findekáno was particularly perky today. Sometimes I just don’t know how to act around him anymore.”

Elemmírё’s eyes twinkled. “So, your cousin Findekáno..?” She let the question trail off.

“I just don’t know what to make of him.”

“Alright, you lost me there. I thought you were good friends. What happened today?”

Maitimo told her about the interactions he had had with his cousin today. How Findekáno had teased him and how they had agreed to push ideas about their separate assignments back and forth between them. And about how his heart and mind had almost jumped at the possibility of spending more time with Findekáno.

“Well, you are good friends,” Elemmírё mused, “Why does your eagerness to spend time with him confuse you?”

Maitimo thought about this for a moment. “The teasing he does intensified. It sometimes feels like more, you know. And if it is, I don’t want to disappoint him.”

“Maybe you could ask him if there is more meaning to it. Use the training you got well?”

“And if he says yes? He doesn’t know about me...”

“You should give him more credit. I don’t think he will treat you differently.”

“And what if he does?”

“He won’t.”

 

Maitimo thought about this for a moment. Elemmírё seemed to place a lot of trust into Findekáno. Maybe he should trust his friend as well? This he had to debate with himself at a later time.

“How is it going for you?” Maitimo asked. “You told me last time you are trying to compose another piece of music.”

“Your brother has long surpassed me in talent. Composing is hard these days, hardly anything seems to inspire me.”

Maitimo grinned. “There are not many left who surpass Makalaurё.”

“Inspiration is also hard to come by,” Elemmírё complained. “I enjoy the peace we have here, but sometimes it is a bit boring.”

“So you’d rather go on an adventure?”

Elemmírё laughed. “Not myself, no. But I would like to write songs about those who go. By any chance, you haven’t thought about taking your project totally serious, have you?”

“What do you mean?”

“You are to write a petition to Manwё, are you not? Why only write it, why not give your statement to the Valar personally?”

“You must be joking,” Maitimo answered. “They will never allow it.”

“You’ll never know.”

 

Despite the utter ridiculousness of that statement, it stayed in Maitimo’s thoughts. It stayed there so long in fact, that he decided to talk with Findekáno about that matter.

“I had the most peculiar conversation with Elemmírё recently.”

Findekáno looked up from his book and stopped making notes for a moment. He regarded Maitimo with interest. “What about?”

“About our assignments. She suggested we worked together and go beyond the theory.”

The questioning expression soon turned to confusion and disbelief. “You don’t mean… Presenting the petition fully formed – in front of the Valar?”

Maitimo nodded.

Findekáno narrowed his eyes. “You like the idea.” It wasn’t a question.

“It has a certain appeal.”

“You are your father’s son indeed.”

Maitimo did not know how to answer. It was true, it was maybe foolish, but he was interested in doing this.

“Do you really want to do this?”

“Maybe?”

“Yes or no?” Findekáno fixed him to the spot with his stare. “Because we are either doing this or not. Your decision.”

“Let’s do it then, if you are prepared for the work it will take.”

“I am.” Findekáno smirked. “The question is – Are you?”

 

- - -

 

“I am done for today,” Findekáno announced hours later. “If I have to read one more sentence about speculations on how the lands around Cuivienen might have changed, I am going to throw that book against the wall.”

“Please don’t,” Maitimo replied. “It is an old and priceless tome, grandfather would not be amused.”

“Then he should not have put a book about unproven theories and speculations into his library.” Findekáno sighed. “It did not help much with forming my arguments. Now, shall we go to the market, get something to eat? Maybe cake. Cake does sound good, doesn’t it?”

Maitimo only had time to nod before Findekáno pulled him from the room by his hand.

 

Findekáno never let go of his hand.

 

They soon arrived at the market place, when Maitimo started to realize something. “The people are starting to look.” Maitimo wasn’t sure if he wanted Findekáno to let go or to keep holding his hand. It was warm and comfortable after all.

“Oh.” Findekáno let his hand go as if it had burned him. “I – I am sorry…” He stuttered almost, his face flushing and he stared at the floor. “I. I just…” Findekáno breathed in, still not looking at Maitimo. “I just thought…”

It was heartbreaking to see Findekáno this – dejected, almost. “What did you think?” Maitimo asked with all the kindness he had.

“That maybe you would not mind… I hoped…” It was all the confirmation Maitimo needed. Findekáno felt something for him, beyond the friendship they already shared. He wanted to celebrate, but also he needed to tell Findekáno now about the body he had been born with. Such a conversation they had to have, at best now before they could take another step, but Maitimo was unwilling to do so in a market place full of sharp ears.

“Come.” Maitimo did not wait for a response and grabbed Findekáno’s hand again. He then pulled him out of the crowded area, to a place behind one of the stalls and the wall of a building.

“Maitimo?” Findekáno asked. “Are you – you are not letting me down?”

“No, for I have hoped for the same. But… you should be able to make an informed decision, for I am not exactly what you think I am. I was born in the body of a woman, even though my mother saw the truth of my fёa.” The confession was hard for Maitimo to make. It could be the beginning of the end of his friendship with Findekáno.

To his relief, Findekáno smiled. “So it’s the other way around as it was for aunt Elemmírё.”

“Maybe. It doesn’t bother you, me being-”

“I love you, not some illusion of you.”

“Then kiss me, Findekáno. Kiss me and make me believe it.”

“As you wish.”

The kiss was glorious and with certainty Maitimo knew that their fates were now intertwined forever. He and Findekáno, they were it, no matter what would come.

 

“Nelyo!” Suddenly a young boy came running at them, interrupting the kiss and the whole confession.

Maitimo drew back reluctantly and turned towards the boy, who he had already identified as his younger brother Morifinwё. “Moryo, what are you doing here alone? Where is mother?”

“I am here,” Nerdanel said and stepped around the market stall they were standing behind. “Moryo pulled me along. It is good to see you too, Findekáno.”

“Well met, Lady Nerdanel.”

She smiled genuinely. “It is fortunate that I meet you here, Maitimo. Fёanáro decided to have a family dinner later this evening. Had I not met you here, I would have come to your room at the academy – And you have to come!” Nerdanel’s tone allowed no protest and to be fair, Maitimo had missed his family too.

“I’ll be there,” he promised.

 

- - -

 

“I heard you ask Findekáno to kiss today,” Moryo said suddenly, looking up from his plate and staring at Maitimo. “Are you two together like father and mother now?”

Silence fell over the dinner table. Only for a moment, because then Tyelko broke it.

“What?” His tone was dangerous and Maitimo did his best not to flinch. “You asked that bastard…”

“Findekáno is no bastard.”

“I demand you tell me the truth. Did you and him..?”

“Yes, Tyelko.” Maitimo stared at his brother and watched as his face grew red with rage. It was quite unbecoming of him. Only belatedly, Maitimo’s brain seemed to realize that his father, Fёanáro had not said a single word since the revelation. His father did not look exactly pleased, which was warning enough.

“How could you!,” Tyelko growled. “No brother of mine…”

“That’s enough!” Nerdanel stood up. Her voice was strong and clear. “This is none of your business, Tyelkormo!”

“I’ll better go,” Maitimo said in hopes of defusing the situation. “As I am clearly not welcome at the table at the moment.” He threw a glance to his father, who still had not said a thing. He looked at Maitimo with clear disapproval though.

As he stepped through the door, out of the kitchen, Maitimo could hear is mother berate his father. “You could have said something! And you, Tyelko, go to your room until you have cooled off.”

“Mother!”

“Silent, you are out of line!”

“I never imagined, Nolo’s son and…” Maitimo closed the door of the house behind him. All the disapproval of his love, it stung. He needed to go.

Go. Go to Finno.

 

When Findekáno finally opened the door, Maitimo was already nearing his breaking point. He was thankful he had not passed any other elves in the hallways, because his face would have betrayed him. Findekáno took only one look at him and ushered him inside.

“Maitimo, dear? What happened?” he asked and reached out with his hands to hold Maitimo close.

“Not even one day of peace was given to us.” Maitimo almost sobbed. “Moryo overheard our confession today and chose to air it at the dinner table in front of father.”

“That little shit!”

Maitimo shook his head. “Moryo is too young to understand that he should have kept it a secret.”

“He should have kept his mouth shut,” Findekáno once again growled before his face softened and he sighed. “Younger siblings can be a test to one’s patience, alright. I guess the fallout was bad?”

“Tyelko exploded immediately and demanded of me to speak the truth. Tell him if it was true.”

“What did you say?”

“The truth.” Maitimo swallowed. “I told him the truth.”

“Oh. I would have understood if you had lied.”

“It wouldn’t have been a solution and I hate the thought of hiding you.”

“I guess it doesn’t help if I say this makes me even love you more.”

Maitimo had to smile at that. “What worries me the most is father’s reaction.”

“Was it bad?”

“Not exactly. More like he couldn’t believe it. When I left the door, I heard him speak about you as ‘Nolo’s son’ and it did not sound happy.”

“So I have to worry now about Fёanáro hating my guts. Great.”

“I hope Father will come around. He should, as I can’t imagine he would deny me my happiness.”

Fingon raised his eyebrows. “First of all, that’s sweet of you. Second of all, I don’t know your father that well, thanks to that stupid family feud, but I heard he can and will keep grudges for a long time.”

“Never with me or my brothers. At least I hope.”

“Your word in Eru’s ear. I don’t want him to hate me, as I intend to keep you.”

“Now who’s the sweet one?”

“What do you say if work a bit on our project and ignore our family drama for a while?”

“That’s not sweet, but probably reasonable. But only if we can cuddle afterwards.”

“Promise?”

“Promise.”

 

A knock on the door had them both stop at what they were doing. Findekáno raised his eyebrows and looked over at Maedhros. His beloved had so far been writing on the petition for their project, but was now looking at the door as well.

“I’ll guess I’ll have to open,” Fingon said and walked the few steps over. As he opened, his eyes fell onto the robes of the visitor at first, because he was taller than Fingon. The elf wore dark clothing with red embroidery, which contrasted nicely with his dark hair. In other words, Fёanáro Curufinwё had arrived.

“Is Maitimo here?”

Findekano just stared. Fёanáro did not seem to be furious or angry, but he had not acknowledged him at all. “Hello uncle.”

“Findekáno. Is Maitimo here?” Fёanáro’s voice was hard to read. He seemed to be unfazed and in control, but that could just be a ruse and he could be boiling underneath the surface.

Before Findekáno could answer, Maitimo made a decision. “I am here father. Why have you come?” If this was to become bad -

“I am here to apologize for not stopping Tyelkormo earlier.”

“Wait-,” Findekáno sounded unbelieving. “You want to apologize?”

Fёanáro turned his eyes to him. “I am capable of apologizing. Will you let me in?”

Findekáno regarded him for a moment before stepping aside.

Finally able to see his father, Maitimo saw the conflict on his face. It was obvious he was still struggling with the fact that his eldest was now in a relationship with Nolofinwё’s son. Why he had come so soon was surprising to Maitimo, but it gave him hope.

Now in the room, Fёanáro relaxed a bit. “As I said, I am sorry for making you feel like you had to leave. I don’t really understand why you chose Findekáno (here Maitimo was happy that his father did not speak with disgust), but I don’t have to.”

“Thank you, father.” This was a blessing in disguise. Thankfully Findekáno realized this too. Unfortunately, nobody knew exactly what to say next.

It was Fёanáro who narrowed his eyes next and stared at Findekáno. “Hurt him and you will learn how far I am willing to go for my family.”

“Understood.” Findekáno swallowed. “Just know I have no intention of hurting him.”

“You better not.” Thankfully Fёanáro was easy to distract and let his eyes wander around the room until his gaze fell onto the table which was now covered in books and loose sheets of paper. Before Maitimo could stop him, his father had taken the step over and looked at the writings.

“You are reading up on the lands east?”

“Yes. We both got projects which circle around the topic and Elemmírё encouraged us to work together.”

Fёanáro nodded with appreciation. “What exactly are you working on?”

 

“Your father is intense,” Findekáno remarked later, as he and Maitimo were lounging in his bed, cuddling.

“He is.”

“But also brilliant. I am excited to see the map he promised us. He was also a great help with getting some of our ideas and arguments smoothed out.”

Maitimo nodded and let his hands wander through Findekáno’s hair. “He only is like this with topics that interest him.”

“To be fair, I expected his mood to sour when you mentioned Elemmírё. She is married to aunt Findis after all and I expected that stupid family feud to come into play again.”

Maitimo huffed. “He respects Elemmírё and even likes her, even if he would never admit it. She helped me a lot, when father could not.”

“Oh?”

Maitimo nodded. “We had some similar experiences, being born with body and fёa at odds. She is the elder one and helped me with some things.”

“Oh, I didn’t know you had so much history.” Findekáno let the sentence trail off. “It is good to know that family feud has limits. It would not stop me from loving you anyway.”

Maitimo smiled and pressed his face against Findekáno’s chest. “I love you, too.”

 

- - -

 

A few days later, Maitimo got an invitation to join Elemmírё and Findis in a café in town, near the marketplace. Apparently the two ladies were interested in how the project was progressing.

“This week was a crazy one,” Maitimo said.

“So I heard. You and Findekáno are together?” Elemmírё smiled. “This is a great development, though I heard their was a tumultuous situation in your family.”

“Tyelko behaved out of line,” Maitimo declared. “He wasn’t happy about me ‘fraternizing with the enemy’, as if Findekáno was an enemy.”

Findis rolled her eyes. “He should straighten his morals, for I know for a fact he eyes Irissё with admiration. He’s too hot-headed for his own good.”

Maitimo saw Findis was smiling again. For someone who had managed to stay out of most of the family affairs, she knew a lot. A thought came to Maitimo though. “Somehow I doubt it was a coincidence that you gave out the project when you did.” He narrowed his eyes. “Mine and Findekáno’s topics were also very close in their nature.”

Elemmírё’s face grew red, revealing that there had in fact been intention behind it.

Findis then laughed a bit. “You would have never taken the first step without a little push.”

“I would have,” Maitimo protested.

Findis only raised her eyebrows and said nothing.

“How is the project coming along?” Elemmírё turned her head to Maitimo.

“It is going fine. Me and Findekáno did a lot of work, especially since we started working together. We may be able to present our results sooner than expected.”

Findis smiled. “I am looking forward to it. You invested a lot of work already and I heard even Fёanáro is interested in what you’ll have to show.”

[IMAGE]

[Findis]

Part III - The Spark
At first, Maitimo had wanted to protest, when his father said his and Findekáno’s ideas were well suited to make a plea in front of the Valar. Their reasoning was sound and many of the elves felt the same way, having left a part of their kind behind in lands which were without light. Fёanáro had pushed them especially hard and even Nerdanel had shown her support. Maitimo knew that his father loved exploration and there wasn’t much left in Valinor to explore. He had revealed a few days ago that he had been working on lanterns and glowing gemstones for a while now, which would be a light in the dark on an expedition.

 

Nothing could have prepared Maitimo for standing in front of the Valar though. Findekáno seemed just as anxious as he felt. There were Manwё, Varda and Aulё waiting for them. They had left their seat atop the Taniquetil and had come at Finwё’s request to Tirion.

“I can’t believe they came,” Findekáno whispered.

Maitimo agreed. “The last time they came to Tirion was when Miriél’s fate was decided.” That had been a very significant day, which had changed their family forever. Hopefully this day would turn out better.

“Oh. I hope this is not a bad sign.”

“I don’t know,” Maitimo murmured. “It is a sign, certainly, but no idea if it is good or bad. Maybe this time they will support us this time.”

Findekáno breathed in deeply. “As I remember, Varda and Manwё are very adamant about following their own rules and those they made for us.”

“But Aulё has always been a friend of our family. Let’s see how it goes?”

 

“Me and Findekáno worked together for the last few weeks on a project concerning the distribution of light and of those who we left behind in the dark,” Maitimo began his speech. It had been decided he would be the one to speak in front of the Valar, mostly for political reasons. At first, he had tried to get Findekáno to present his own part, about the distribution of light, but neither Findekáno nor Fёanáro had been please about that. So Findekáno just stood next to him in a silent show of support.

So Maedhros spoke about how the Valar had only provided light for the lands of Valinor, which went against their former pledge to care for all the elves. Varda’s creations were beautiful, but they did not give the light which allowed for plants to grow plentiful. Hence those forsaken elves had to cohabit in the darkness with the dark creatures roaming about. Their lives were therefore in constant danger.

“Which is a shame, because many only stayed behind for Thingol, who got lost,” Maitimo followed up with his ideas. “It is safe to assume he either got found by now, or he is lost forever. As Námo has not spoken of him going to the Halls, the first seems likely. It is a shame for all of us to have basically forgotten our kin on the other shores. I propose an expedition, to find those and offer them safe passage.” Here came some appreciative murmur from the crowd. Maitimo was pleased with the reaction. He had feared the elves would not like his and Findekáno’s ideas. A quick glance at the Valar present revealed nothing, their expressions were without any hint to their thoughts. “Such an expedition could be undertaken only in two ways.” Maitimo unfurled the map his father had given him. “By foot, going over the Grinding Ice, which is the more dangerous path to take. The other option would be to ask the Teleri elves for help. Their boats could carry us across the waters.” As he spoke, Findekáno pointed at the map, until it was his turn to speak.

“Such an expedition can only be started with the blessings of the Valar, as I and everyone here is well aware.” Findekáno’s voice was firm. “How will you answer to our request?”

 

“That went well,” Maitimo concluded in the end.

Findekáno sighed. “Manwё surprised me, heat least isn’t wholly against and undertaking, but the answer of the whole Council of the Valar is still pending. And even if they were in favour, who would go on such an expedition? This is something we haven’t thought about yet.”

“The council will likely follow Manwё, even if Varda seemed less than impressed. I was surprised by his tentative approval. For your other question, I guess my father would go if allowed. I know he is getting a bit bored with how stagnant Valinor is.”

“And who would follow?” Findekáno obviously had some doubts. “You know, when we began this project, I never expected this to become this big. Now that we are here, I somehow I don’t think we thought this through.”

It was no wonder Findekáno felt this way, for Maitimo had had similar thoughts in the days before the presentation. Maybe they should have communicated beforehand more. Now they had set things in motion which had gone beyond their control. With Fёanáro and Findis supporting them it had been impossible to take a step back and think.

“Maybe we should have taken more time to talk this out,” Maitimo conceded.

“Maybe, but that time has passed.” Findekáno sighed once again. “Now we have to see what comes of it. But truly, who do you think would go?”

“At least some of my family, but that is a decision which will come in the future. I imagine months, maybe years will pass before anyone sets sail. But when this happens and I would want to go, would you go with me?”

“Yes, of course.” Here Findekáno seemed very sure. “Anyway, we started this, we should see it through, don’t you think?”

Maitimo breathed out in relief. “We started this indeed. I am glad you want to be at my side, for I would not go without you.”

“You’re so romantic,” Findekáno commented. “I love you, too. Never forget.”

“I wouldn’t, but it is good to hear it.”

“What do you think we will be able to accomplish until the Valar reach a verdict? Build our own house?”

Maitimo laughed, thinking about their hopefully bright future. “We could try.”


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]