TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
On accepting strange family	leodesic	2024-02-10	2024-02-10	13,830	1/1	88	358	21	2,846

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Teen And Up Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Eärendil & Elrond Peredhel, Elrond Peredhel & Maglor, Celebrían/Elrond Peredhel, Celebrían & Maglor | Makalaurë	Elrond Peredhel, Eärendil the Mariner (Tolkien), Maglor (Tolkien), Celebrían (Tolkien), Eönwë (Tolkien), Ereinion Gil-galad, Fingolfin (Tolkien)	Kidnap Dads, Family, Father-Son Relationship, Humor, Fourth Age of Arda (Tolkien), Valinor (Tolkien), Fluff, Oath of Fëanor, Fëanorian Elrond Peredhel, Reunions, Eärendil POV, Unreliable Narrator, I say unreliable he's actually pretty solid but he's very uninformed, Quenya, Accents, Vingilot (Tolkien)

SUMMARY
“We watched your star often when we were young. I remember Elros giving me very clear instructions as to what I was to say and do if I met you.”

 

Eärendil is reunited with Elrond in Valinor and has an extremely stressful first meeting featuring an Oath fulfilled and several interruptions. Despite that, he and Elrond forge a tentative bond -- if only he can adapt to how proudly his son has come to love his adopted House.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
On accepting strange family


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
This is part of an ongoing series exploring a post-Kidnap-Dads Elrond who grew very attached to said kidnap dads.

Quenya notes:
yonya - my son


CHAPTER 1
When Eärendil had learnt to navigate using the stars, he had complained endlessly about seasonal stars that vanished or hung low in the sky for half the year instead of remaining in their due place. The irony that his star was seasonal did not escape him.

For half of each year, his path sat high in the sky, and Eärendil in his ship knew no harbour. He slept in Vingilótë during the day sailed the sky night. At times, when he woke and it was still light, he looked over the prow of his ship down on Middle Earth and wondered if his sons were down there, somewhere, and if they were happy. Something told him all was well. For all Elwing despaired, Eärendil did not have it in him to lose hope.

But for half of each year, his route drifted close enough to Valinor that Eärendil could return to land during the day and dwell amongst the Eldar in the West. He could see his wife and speak with those who had recently returned from Middle Earth. Each year, Elwing greeted him for the first time clad in white or some other pale colour, and for a few hours he would forget the grief that had reunited them.

But this year, an elven lord stood by the sea in wait. He wore a cloak the colour of the sea near the shore bearing a strange device that Eärendil did not recognize. A silver circlet glimmered in his black hair like stars in the night sky. At first glance, Eärendil saw only a great elven lord carrying with him many years of wisdom and grace. Then he looked again and it seemed to him the lord was nervous, and he recognized the reflection of his own features in the stranger who could only be his son.

Practicality forced Eärendil to see Vingilótë to shore and see her docked safely, but he then walked up to his son and looked at him in open joy.

“El” – he started, then realized in horror he did not know which of his sons stood before him. To his surprise, his reaction won a tiny smile from his son.

“Elrond.”

“Elrond,” Eärendil repeated in wonder. The last time he had seen Elrond he had been on the docks, screaming desperately for Eärendil to turn back and stay or at least take him with him, but Eärendil had left anyway. An elf would have something wise and clever to say something here, but Eärendil was too mannish by half and found himself weeping instead. “Elrond!”

Elrond guided him back to the ship where they could sit and produced a handkerchief from somewhere inside his robes, saying,

“A wise friend once told me never to leave home without a spare.”

“Wise indeed!” Eärendil laughed. “I have not heard such ordinary sense in years. I should like to meet them.”

“You may, if you wish. My wife and I have settled in a valley not far from Tirion. You are welcome to visit whenever you wish.”

“You have a wife,” Eärendil said, awed. It suddenly hit him how many years had passed and he stared at his son in new grief. “I’ve missed your whole life. I missed Elros’ life. Whatever my journey bought, the cost was steep! I never should have left you.”

Elrond’s hand clenched into a fist in his robes before he carefully released it. When he spoke, his voice was level and rational. “You had a duty to do.”

“I did. I also had a duty as a father. Leaving you and Elros was the hardest thing I’ve ever done and the worst thing I’ve ever done.”

Some emotion passed quickly over Elrond’s face before he smoothed it away. Eärendil wondered if hiding his emotions was a habit for him, and if so, who he had to hold accountable for teaching his son so poorly. Worse still, Elrond gave him a small, comforting smile and put a hand on his shoulder.

“We lived well,” he said soothingly. “We were taken care of and happy for many years. Elros chose to be counted among Men, but he lived many lives by their reckoning and died peacefully as the first King of Númenor.”

Eärendil considered Elros’ choice. There had been a time when he had intended to take the Gift of Men. Duty and love of Elwing had swayed him, but each night he caught himself staring into the darkness between the stars, restless in a way the Eldar never seemed to be. As tempting as it was to grieve his son, he would not wish such a fate on him.

“I am sorry to be parted from him yet happy he had his choice. But I have heard of Númenor,” Eärendil said, frowning a little at the memory. “I was instructed to hold the Silmaril aloft and let it shine brightly to guide the Men to the Isle. I was not told my son was among them.”

He had looked, desperately, for his sons, but the land below him was so small, and so much time had passed that he did not know where to look or what they may look like. If he had known to look then, he could have watched over Elros for the rest of his life. If only he had been told!

“I remember. You should have heard Elros speak of it,” Elrond said, amusement dancing in his eyes. “We watched your star often when we were young. I remember Elros giving me very clear instructions as to what I was to say and do if I met you.”

Eärendil heart wrenched at the thought of his sons watching his lonely journey through the sky. “You deserved a father, not some speck of light.”

“Perhaps. But we had what we had.”

Eärendil snorted and got to his feet, beckoning Elrond to do the same. He led him to the prow of the ship and reached up towards the figurehead where the Silmaril was fixed. His sons had endured torment beyond imagining for the Silmaril. From what he had gleaned from Elwing’s words, they had watched her die and seen their home invaded and destroyed by fellow elves. He could only imagine what that must have done to them. It seemed only fair that Elrond got a chance to see the trinket his sorrow had bought.

“If anyone has earned a chance to see the wretched thing up close, it is you. Here!”

He passed the Silmaril to his son. Elrond flinched when the jewel first fell into his palm, then stared at it in something like awe.

“It doesn’t burn,” he wondered. He stared at it for a few moments more before looking up at Eärendil with grief in his eyes. “Ai, I do not regret what I have done, but I never thought that when I met you I would want to know you!”

There were many grievous things that had been done in the name of the Silmarils, and the idea that his son might have done something that warranted being burned by the hallowed gems horrified him, but Eärendil put his hands out in a soothing gesture.

“It’s all right, Elrond. Whatever it is, we’ll sort it out.”

“I did not come here tonight because I am your son,” Elrond said, agony in every word. “I came here as the son of Maglor and Maedhros Fëanorion. I came seeking the Silmaril that I might say it is held once more by Fëanor's kin. I came here to fulfil the Oath, and I have.”

At the final sentence, the Silmaril emit a blinding blaze of light so bright Eärendil was forced to hide his face in his arm. When he lowered his arm and could see clearly once more, Elrond looked drained and shaken. He let the Silmaril fall to the floor and took a deep breath. When he looked up again, there were tears in his eyes.

“It is done. Oh, Valar, please let it be done.”

Bone-deep horror struck Eärendil as he put the words together and reached the obvious conclusion. “They had you swear the Oath?”

Elrond shook his head frantically. “No! No, they never wanted us involved. But the Oath damned them to the Everlasting Darkness if they failed. Atto, Maedhros, he died long ago, but I miss him! I miss him, Eärendil, just as I miss Elros, but Atto was one of the Eldar like me, he was meant to come back! Everyone else was waiting for me when I sailed but him! And if he cannot come back, at least he should not be thrown into the Void with his torturer! I cannot leave him to that fate! And ai! I want him back!”

Elrond wept as he tried to explain himself, his voice cracking here and there, unable to keep the sheer desperation out of his tone. Eärendil had been braced to argue with a wise elven lord or a fey warrior ensnared by the Silmaril, but he was defenceless against his crying son. The last time he had seen Elrond in such a state, he had been putting out to sea for the final time as his sons stood on the shore and wailed for him not to leave. At least this time, he could give Elrond his father back, even if he was no longer the father his son wept for.

Decision made, Eärendil stepped close to Elrond. When that seemed to be accepted, he wrapped an arm around him and slowly pulled him into a firm embrace, rocking him back and forth and humming an old lullaby he remembered from his own childhood. It was not long before Elrond calmed enough for Eärendil to ask,

“Were Maglor and Maedhros good to you?”

He thought he had his answer in his son’s desperation, but he wanted to be certain. Elrond managed a weak smile and said,

“The best. Now that I’ve raised twins myself, I have no idea how they did it.”

“Well, they did an excellent job,” Eärendil said, indulging himself and pressing a kiss to the top of Elrond’s dark hair. It was, after all, likely the last chance he would get to do so. “And as grieved as I am to have lost my son, I am glad to know you found two fathers who love you well.”

“I would not be opposed to three fathers, if you can forgive me for the deception,” Elrond said shyly. He then looked around their feet for the abandoned Silmaril and held it out to Eärendil. “Either way, this belongs to you.”

If Eärendil could forgive him, he thought, as if Elrond had not just shown the most stunning display of loyalty and courage he had ever seen. Who else could claim to sought a Silmaril without shedding even one drop of blood? And now he gave it back. It ought to have been impossible, but Elrond had done it for a father he loved and did not even covet the treasure itself. Eärendil had the kindest, cleverest son in the West. He looked at the proffered Silmaril and asked,

“Will the rest of your family be safe if I take this?”

In place of an answer, Eärendil found himself nearly bowled over with the force of the embrace Elrond launched at him. He laughed in delight and hugged his son back without restraint. When at last they separated, Elrond said,

“I think they will. And if they are not, I trust you will let me borrow it again until I can fulfil whatever absurd requirement lies on them.”

Eärendil agreed and returned the Silmaril to its place. He then returned to his seat beside Elrond and after a moment said hesitantly,

“You thought the Silmaril would burn.”

“The others burned Maedhros and Maglor. I have been healing Maglor’s hand every day for decades now,” Elrond said quietly. “I know my fathers have done many evil deeds, but they are not evil themselves. Even if I try to take a harsh view of their deeds, they are not Morgoth or Sauron. So if the Silmarils would burn them, I do not know where the line is. Perhaps healing Atya is enough to damn me.”

It was tempting to argue with Elrond. He had seen the damage the fall of Doriath and then Sirion had done to his wife’s fëa. Elwing carried scars that would never heal. And while Eärendil himself may have escaped the sack of Sirion, he had lost friends in the battle and spent a lifetime mourning his sons. And yet the same elves who had caused such grief had raised his sons with such love that Elrond seemed genuinely confused that the Silmarils could have burned his adoptive fathers and not him.

Before Eärendil could decide how to respond, he heard Eönwë’s voice call his name clear through the dawn air. Elrond took Eärendil’s hand and told him quietly where he lived, telling him to visit his family regardless of how things turned out. He then gave a small, crooked smile and said,

“I am glad to have met you, Adar.”

They stood together. Eönwë stood on the pier and strode onto the ship when he saw them. “Lord Eärendil! And Lord Elrond! I am pleased to see you are reunited, and unharmed.”

“Lord Eönwë,” Eärendil bowed. “It is good indeed to be reunited with my son. What brings you to Vingilótë in such haste?”

“The Valar fear they may have made a mistake,” Eönwë said gravely. “Maglor, son of Fëanor, was permitted to return after begging for mercy for your son’s sake, the second mercy he has been granted. But it seems that mercy has been poorly repaid. Lord Manwë says the Oath of Fëanor has been fulfilled. I was sent to secure the Silmaril, and save you if I could, as well as to capture Maglor or whatever foul creature of his is at work.”

“The Silmaril is in its due place,” Eärendil said.

Beside him, Elrond shrugged off his cloak and folded it, handing it to Eärendil before stepping forward. Beneath the cloak he wore robes of crimson with an eight-pointed star embroidered across his chest, and his belt was studded with fine jewels. Standing before Eönwë, he held out his hands before him with his wrists pressed together and said,

“You say you seek some creature of Maglor’s – I am his son! I laid my hands on the Silmaril and fulfilled my fathers’ Oath. If this is a crime, arrest me, or kill me if you must. I am unarmed. I will not resist, but nor will I repent my deeds.”

In the history books, it said Maglor had once been not just a singer but a performer with a flair for drama. If so, Eärendil could certainly see the mark he had left on Elrond. But instead of soothing Elrond as Eärendil had expected, Eönwë drew his sword.

“You would betray your father?”

Eärendil stepped forward beside his son. “He has betrayed nothing and hurt no one.”

“You should stay away from me. I deceived you. I would have done worse to get Maedhros back,” Elrond said, and when Eärendil turned to look at him, he realized with a jolt of horror that Elrond was trying to protect him. That Eärendil would not stand for. He put an arm in front of Elrond and pushed him back. He repeated himself.

“My son has betrayed nothing and hurt no one. He held the Silmaril for a brief instant and then returned it to me the moment he trusted Maglor and Maedhros were safe.”

That caught Eönwë’s attention. “You returned it voluntarily?”

Elrond looked at him disdainfully. “What have the Silmarils brought but pain and death? I came because fulfilling the Oath was the only way to secure peace for my fathers.”

Eönwë considered this. “If you have done no harm to Lord Eärendil, nor stolen that which is not yours, there is no crime. I will take your words to the Valar.”

Elrond bowed deeply. It was not until after Eönwë had left that he leaned against the edge of the ship and let out an exhausted, terrified laugh.

“I did not think I would survive that,” he admitted.

“I would not have allowed harm to come to you.”

Elrond looked at him in abject horror, shaking his head frantically. “No, if any ill comes from this, it must fall on me and me alone.”

“You are my son,” Eärendil insisted, and Elrond let out a bitter laugh.

“Now I know how Atya feels each time I try to protect him! I have made my own choices, Adar. I would not have you bear the consequences.”

That required explaining, so they spent the next hour reviewing Elrond’s life and the various times he had insisted on putting himself in various degrees of danger in the name of his chosen House and family. Listening to him, one would be forgiven for thinking Maglor the Kinslayer was nothing more than an over-protective, loving father with infinite patience, a soft voice, and a tendency to worry more than was good for him. Half way through a complicated explanation, Elrond paused and his expression brightened.

“You were afraid he and Maedhros may have treated us poorly. There is one way I can prove otherwise, if you would allow it.”

“Go on,” Eärendil said.

“When Atya returned after many centuries away, only sharing memories with him via ósanwë could convince him we had been well treated by the High King. I could do the same for you. I could show you Elros, also. I do not think he would begrudge that, not now that you have shown willing to aid our family.”

For a moment, Eärendil could only stand there, stunned by his son’s generosity. Communicating via ósanwë was one thing, but sharing memories was a precious gift and one that he would not have thought to hope for. Blinking away sudden tears, he nodded. He had never been particularly fond of ósanwë, but for a glimpse of Elrond’s childhood, maybe even of Elros, he would do anything. Elrond coaxed him to sit and make himself comfortable. He opened his mouth to ask what came next, but then he blinked, and –

He was walking across a room towards a massive, scarred elf with hair like fire, but somehow at the same time he watched himself from the doorway, peeking around the corner while trying to hide from sight. The elf looked monstrous to Eärendil's eyes, but the child in his memories felt no fear. There was a hint of nervousness, yes, and anticipation, but love, also, and the comfort a child felt from the presence of one who kept them safe. The him-that-was walking tugged on the redhead’s sleeve and was scooped up into his lap and Eärendil's stomach lurched –

Eärendil had just enough time to disconnect from Elrond’s mind and lean over the edge of his ship before emptying his stomach. He felt like had taken a hard blow to the head. Every time he thought he was better, the double vision from the memory came back and the dizziness returned. But after a time, he came back to himself. Elrond stood by his side, rubbing his back and humming a soothing tune.

“What was that?” Eärendil asked hoarsely. Looking extremely sheepish, Elrond replied,

“My childhood. Elros and I shared as much or more for many years. It did not occur to me it might be so disconcerting to you. I do not know which of my first memories are his, which are mine, or if there is any meaningful difference.”

Eärendil tried and failed to consider what that must have been like. He then tried to imagine how it must have felt to lose someone like that and his heart broke for Elrond once more. Elrond continued to speak, explaining the circumstances that had led the two of them to separate their minds. He was interrupted again, this time by the sound of rapid footsteps.

Both Elrond and Eärendil turned in time to see Maglor burst onto the boat. His eyes were wide in panic and his hair dishevelled. He looked at Eärendil's hunched posture and the trace of vomit around his mouth, then turned his eyes to Elrond in despair. He did not so much as glance at the Silmaril.

“Elrond,” he moaned, “Elrond, yonya, what have you done?”

“Hello, Atya. Findekáno was supposed to be distracting you,” Elrond said.

“Findekáno knew?”

There was a flash of anger amidst Maglor’s grief, and Eärendil abruptly understood why his wife was so terrified of him. It was a dreadful anger, something violent and wrathful that could not easily be satisfied. Eärendil put one hand on his sword, but he did not draw it. It was hard to reconcile this strange, fey creature with the Maglor from Elrond’s stories, but Elrond did not seem alarmed by him, and Eärendil took that as his cue. He would not be the one to escalate the situation to violence.

“Atya,” Elrond said gently, stepping towards Maglor as if he had not slaughtered cities with his voice alone. “Atya, what precisely is it you think I’ve done?”

Maglor’s gaze slipped to Eärendil, who found himself quickly tidying himself up and straightening his spine. It was time for a decision and Eärendil would trust his son’s judgement.

“Our son has done nothing wrong,” he said, looking Maglor in the eyes. Maglor’s jaw dropped. He stared at Eärendil in disbelief, plainly not believing his ears.

“Our son?” he echoed in a whisper. Eärendil recognized the desperate hope in his voice all too well. Whatever else Maglor had done, right now he was a father terrified for his son, and Eärendil could offer him comfort on that front. His fear lessened now he understood him better.

“You raised him well. He speaks of you and your brother with great affection.”

“I didn’t hurt anyone. I held the Silmaril for but a moment, Atya, then returned it to Adar,” Elrond said.

Eärendil felt a little rush of joy at not just being called ‘Adar’, but that Elrond kept to the name in front of his chosen father. The single Sindarin word sounded odd amongst the sudden rush of Quenya that had followed Maglor’s arrival, but it was a sound Eärendil would gladly get used to.

“You did?” Maglor asked, his voice hoarse. Elrond smiled, pulling him into an embrace.

“I had Findekáno distract you because I knew you would panic, Atya. My only interest in the Silmaril was seeing your foolish Oath fulfilled.”

Maglor began to weep. He clung to Elrond as he did so, letting out great heaving wails and sobbing into his collar. Elrond held him and let him weep, explaining all that had happened in a soothing voice. By the time he calmed down, the sun was high enough in the sky that Eärendil was forced to suggest they part so he could sleep. Elrond agreed, but not without extracting a promise that Eärendil would visit him in the valley where he had settled.

*

He returned to his wife the next day with joy.

“Elwing, Elwing, I met our son. Elrond,” he said. The radiant smile on his face faded when she turned from him, her expression cold and haughty.

“I have met Elrond. He is no son of mine. Not anymore.”

“But” –

A thousand arguments rose in Eärendil's mind, but only one made it out. “He called me ‘Adar’.”

“He calls the sons of Fëanor ‘Adar’,” Elwing snapped. “They have turned him into one of them.”

The sons of Fëanor were ‘Atya’ and ‘Atto’, but that detail was unlikely to be seen as important. Bit by bit, Eärendil extracted the story of Elwing and Elrond’s reunion from his wife. It was not a happy tale. Elwing responded as she always did to anything too Noldo, let alone Fëanorian, and Elrond had been unprepared for the scale of her fear-driven hatred. Eärendil had seen already how dearly Elrond loved his adopted family. Rather than take that as a sign of their benevolence, as Eärendil had, Elwing had taken it as a sign of Elrond’s corruption.

Eärendil cursed the fate that had taken Elwing to Tirion that day. She did not visit the cities of Valinor often, and Tirion even more rarely. Had Eärendil been able to manage the meeting, he told himself, it would have turned out differently.

Though they agreed to disagree, when Eärendil returned to his ship that night he wept. For centuries, he had hoped his family would be reunited, and for one night he had truly believed it might happen, but no more. His time would now be split between the two halves of his family. He would be visiting his son alone.

*

My wife and I have settled,, Elrond had said, but he had not mentioned he had founded a new settlement. Eärendil would have called it a city, if such a peaceful, homely place could be a city. The grandest house was marked by a Fëanorian star flanked by golden flowers, so it was to that house Eärendil went. A stranger invited him in and took him to a terrace overlooking the river and told him that while Lord Elrond was not at home, Lady Celebrían was and she would be with him momentarily.

“Lord Eärendil?”

“Lady Celebrían,” Eärendil replied, bowing low before straightening and looking at his daughter-in-law. Her hair shimmered like the silver seas at dawn, but he was more distracted by a smudge of ink on her cheek. Apologizing, he indicated on his own face where the mark was.

“Oh! Oh, no, I’m so sorry,” she apologized quickly, wiping her face clean. “I’ve just come from the library, I’ve been translating a collection of Vanyar poetry Elrond bought me.”

“I am the one who showed up unannounced,” Eärendil said.

He immediately thought of his own small book collection, wondering if there was anything there that might please her. He was determined to befriend Celebrían for her own merits, but even had he thought otherwise, he would have sought her approval anyway, guessing it was the fastest way to win Elrond’s love. Even after just one fraught meeting, he was confident Elrond adored his wife beyond measure.

Celebrían waved a hand dismissively at his statement, gesturing for him to sit down. “Elrond warned me he had invited you. I’m afraid he may be a while. There was some kind of mining accident in the mountains.”

Eärendil thought his heart might stop. “Elrond is hurt?”

“No, no! Elrond is a healer,” Celebrían soothed quickly. “He will be tired when he returns, but unharmed.”

“A healer,” Eärendil echoed, amazed, and then he laughed. “He told me of you, and of his brother and his deeds, and of his adoptive fathers and all the good they did for him, but he did not once mention he was a healer.”

Celebrían let out an inelegant but rather charming snort. “Yes, that sounds like him. Well, Elrond is ‘a healer’, but that is selling him short. I am sure you know what his family is like. He is a healer as Maglor is ‘a singer’ and Fëanor was ‘a smith’ – and you, I suppose, are ‘a mariner’, if we are to start counting you as part of the family.”

To buy time, Eärendil said, “He must be skilled indeed!”

Meanwhile, his head spun as he attempted to process Celebrían's words. Yes, Elrond must be skilled to have his healing compared to Fëanor's smithing and Maglor’s singing, and had Celebrían stopped there he might have been able to move on the conversation with nothing more than pride. Instead, he found himself stuck on his inclusion in the list. He had never thought to be included in a list of Fëanorians before, even if the list had been constructed in an alarmingly positive context.

“Oh, no. You’ve got Ada’s ‘Fëanorian’ look,” Celebrían said, but the warmth had vanished from her tone. Eärendil had done something wrong. He was not sure what, so he composed his expression into a puzzled look and said,

“Your father being?”

“Lord Celeborn of the Golden Wood. When Elrond first sent me a letter marked with the seal of his House, Ada looked like he’d bitten a lemon.”

And Eärendil had thought arguing with his wife had been difficult. Celebrían smiled sweetly and answered his question politely, but the coldness in her eyes was enough to make him shudder. The warm, welcoming wife of his son had vanished, replaced by something far more frightening.

“We wore him down, of course. Maglor says Elrond gets his stubbornness from his father, Maedhros. They were very close, after all. I do look forward to meeting him when he is released from the Halls.”

Sensing his opportunity, Eärendil jumped in with, “Elrond spoke of him with great fondness. I hope he is released soon.”

“Indeed,” Celebrían said. She examined Eärendil for a moment and then continued, “In Imladris, Elrond spoke often of his Atto and Atya and how much he missed them. I spent half my first pregnancy expecting Maglor to show up with a harp and arms full of toys. Not once did my husband mention missing you in his life, Lord Eärendil, nor has he cared for your opinion until recently. If your opinion of the House he has claimed lordship of is not favourable, it would be kinder for you to let him forget you once more.”

Eärendil took a moment to run through the last few moments of conversation in his head. “Lady Celebrían, I know my son is a Fëanorian. He is close enough kin to Fëanor that he was able to fulfil their Oath. I will not pretend it is not strange to me, for it goes against everything I have ever known, but I am willing to learn.”

“You will have to do more than just learn,” Celebrían warned him. “You must love him and them as they are. And they are strange!”

Much happier now that he understood he was being threatened, Eärendil replied, “I do love him, however strange he is. But he does not seem so strange to me.”

“You have not been woken in the middle of the night because he thought of some new remedy for treating dwarven foot fungus,” Celebrían said drily. “But it is not just their obsession with their craft. That is common enough amongst the Noldor, though they take it to the extreme. Their hearts are not easily moved once set in love or hate. If you are good to Elrond, you will find yourself with the love of all that is left of the House of Fëanor.”

She did not say what would happen if he was cruel to Elrond, but the implication was clear. Eärendil was impressed. Celebrían would have made an excellent politician if she had set her mind to it. To soothe her anger further, he said,

“I only want to know my son, if he will let me; and his wife, if she will let me; and his other fathers, if they will let me.”

Before Celebrían could answer, Maglor’s disbelieving voice came from the doorway, startling them both.

“Celebrían, are you starting an argument on my behalf again?”

Celebrían ducked her head, abashed. “No.”

“Technically, it was on behalf of your entire House,” Eärendil said, unable to keep the laughter from his voice.

He watched as Maglor shook his head and stepped over to Celebrían, taking her hands and squeezing them gently. Now, Eärendil thought, he could see the beloved Atya that Elrond had spoken so fondly of. This Maglor seemed as gentle as a lamb.

“Celebrían, darling, I am honoured beyond words by your love and your loyalty, but this is not Imladris. You and Elrond cannot simply browbeat the entire population into forgetting the First Age.”

“It’s not forgetting, it’s growing around the injury instead of letting the grief destroy you,” Celebrían answered. The words had a certain rhythm to them that suggested they had been learnt by rote, and from the way Maglor sighed he had heard them many times.

“Please do not quote Elrond’s entire speech back to me,” he begged, confirming Eärendil's suspicions. Eärendil wondered what those who still feared Maglor would think if they saw him now. It was plain that Celebrían, at least, held no fear of him, and it was hard to imagine she ever had with the way her smile warmed again at his arrival.

Eärendil felt an unwelcome stab of jealousy. It was easy to see who Celebrían recognized as Elrond’s father, and he could not claim she was wholly wrong to do so. Maglor had been the one to have the joy of raising Elrond. Eärendil had not been there by a choice of his own making. Logically, he knew that his presence would have changed little, that he would have died in Sirion and Elrond still would have called Maglor ‘Atya’ with just as much love, but it changed the way Eärendil felt in his heart. Eärendil did not hate Maglor any more than he hated himself. He did, however, envy him a great deal.

“In any case,” Maglor said, straightening, “Elrond will not return for some hours yet. I know peredhil require more sleep than most of the Eldar. Lord Eärendil, would you like to make use of one of the guest rooms here?”

There were a handful of elves who saw peredhil as lesser and took every opportunity to remind them of that fact. For a moment, Eärendil feared his sons had been raised by one of those elves. Then he remembered the warmth and amusement he had heard in Elrond’s voice as he had described Maglor’s constant concern. To test the waters, he said,

“I can get by on as little rest as any of the Eldar.”

To his surprise, Maglor let out a derisive snort. “Yes, I’ve heard that one before.”

“He didn’t grow out of it, either. He makes the same excuses and gets just as grumpy when he’s tired,” Celebrían said. The two of them exchanged a smile and Maglor said,

“Unfortunately, Lord Eärendil, you are speaking to two people exceptionally well versed in peredhel habits. Take the guest room. We will wake you when Elrond returns.”

Eärendil understood he had lost, but also that losing now cost him nothing. He took the guest room.

The room Eärendil was given was decorated in blue and silver. An odd choice, Eärendil thought, for a Fëanorian household, but he was hardly going to complain. He bathed quickly, ate some of the fresh fruit that had been left out for him, then took himself to bed. He was woken several hours later by Maglor knocking at the door, informing him Elrond would return within the hour.

He emerged to find Elrond in the entrance hall, already wrapped in Maglor’s arms and pressing his forehead against his shoulder. His robes were stained with ash and blood. When Eärendil appeared, Maglor made to speak, but Elrond groaned and said in Quenya,

“I know, Atya, I will eat, and bathe, and then go to sleep.”

“I was going to tell you Lord Eärendil is here,” Maglor said gently. He stroked his hand through Elrond’s hair as he did so before pulling it back with disgust and holding up a chunk of rock he had pulled from his tangled braids.

At Eärendil's name, Elrond lifted his head enough to spot him across the room and managed an exhausted smile. He did not remove himself from Maglor’s arms, but he did say, “Hello, Adar.”

Maglor murmured something too quiet for Eärendil to hear, but Elrond straightened and stepped over to Eärendil. The smile on his face seemed genuine despite his exhaustion and he invited Eärendil to share a meal with him before they parted.

“I apologize for not being here when you arrived, but a mine collapsed in the mountains and they had no competent healers on hand,” Elrond explained, switching to Sindarin now he addressed Eärendil. He wasted no time launching into an explanation as to what he meant by ‘competent’, condemning every healer trained West of the Sea as “utterly useless” and claiming he could have been back hours ago if he had known to take more of his people with him.

“Your wife mentioned you were talented,” Eärendil said, and Elrond’s face lit up.

“You have met Celebrían, then!”

“She threatened me, thinking I was not likely to accept your loyalty to the House of Fëanor.”

“Yes, that sounds like her,” Elrond beamed, sounding absolutely besotted with his wife despite (or because of) the fight she had picked. “She used to be more polite about it. But once she understood how dear they are to me, she lost a lot of the grace and patience she showed in the beginning. Gil-galad says I am a bad influence on her.”

Eärendil considered that statement and the warmth with which Elrond said the former High King’s name. “You are on good terms with King Gil-galad?”

“I am a bad influence on him, too,” Elrond admitted, his eyes bright with amusement. “I used to convince him to sneak away from court so we could go riding through the wilds together without a train of petitioners begging for his attention.”

Elrond, apparently practised with sharing stories of his life now, then sketched the shape of his relationship with the king through a series of stories. He told how he had come to Gil-galad’s court, how he and Elros had befriended him, and how Gil-galad had become one of the most beloved figures in Elrond’s life. They then moved to other stories from Elrond’s life. Eärendil hung on every word. As fascinating as Elrond’s stories were, Eärendil was more interested in the things Elrond revealed unintentionally, like his loyalty and patience and wisdom. His son was as great as any king and gentle beyond imagining.

He left when Elrond began to yawn and returned to his ship once more. That night, as he sailed, he looked down over Middle Earth and wondered which of the lights he saw was Imladris. His grandsons were down there, somewhere, and his granddaughter in Minas Tirith. It was strange to think he had looked down on them before without ever knowing of their existence.

*

After many weeks of visits to Elrond’s home, Eärendil deliberately visited on a day he knew his son would not be home. Instead, he sought out Maglor. He found him by the river, playing a silver harp and singing a lament in Quenya. Eärendil greeted him in the same language. Maglor started and bowed his head.

“Lord Eärendil. I am afraid Elrond is in Tirion today, visiting the High King.”

“I would think, given we have a son in common, we can forgo the formality of ‘Lord’,” Eärendil said, taking a seat on the grass beside Maglor. “I did not come here today to speak to Elrond. I came here to speak to you.”

“As you wish,” Maglor said. Eärendil examined him. There was something familiar haunting his expression, something that put him in mind of Elrond speaking softly to him before standing to face Eönwë. Rather than leading Maglor gently to the topic he wished to discussed, Eärendil decided it would be kinder to jump straight to it,

“You have done both great hurt and great kindness to me and my family. There is one hurt in particular I see echoed in your face each time you look at me. My son has taught me much of healing. I thought perhaps if we spoke openly of it, both our burdens may be eased.”

“If I did not know the facts, I would think your words implied you had done me some evil,” Maglor replied. Eärendil gave him a wry little smile.

“Do you deny your jealousy, then?”

Maglor flinched as if struck. “I will not interfere. I know my place.”

“Know your – Maglor, this is why we must speak!” Eärendil exclaimed. “Elrond would weep to hear you thought as such! You are his father as much as I am.”

He waited a moment for Maglor to process those words, then let his expression twist, showing something of his own grief as he added, “In his eyes, more than I am.”

Realisation dawned on Maglor’s face. Horror warred with disbelief. “You’re jealous of me?”

“I have no doubt Elrond will come to love me. The fact that he calls me ‘Adar’ brings me more joy than I can put into words, even though I know he does not mean it the way he means ‘Atya’ or ‘Atto’.”

“But” –

“He searched for you his whole life. He looked for me as a way to get the Silmaril only. If he had not needed to find me in order to fulfil your Oath, I doubt I would have yet met my son.”

That earned a sharp intake of breath from Maglor. Tellingly, he did not try to deny it.

“There may come a time when Elrond says he has three fathers and believes it, but for now, he has two fathers and a stranger he has decided to let into his family. You have everything I want from him. I do not begrudge you it, for I have seen how happy it makes Elrond to share it with you, but it would be a lie to say I did not want it for myself.”

There was a long pause as Maglor looked at him. After a few beats of silence, he said in a small voice,

“I think Elrond is going to be very cross with me.”

Eärendil snorted. “Yes, probably. You did not raise him to keep his opinions to himself. Why this time?”

“I thought over time, he would forget me, now he has you,” Maglor said. There was an aching, wistful grief to his words that revealed just how deep the belief went, even as Eärendil stared at him in disbelief. But there was something worse lurking there, so Eärendil asked,

“Would, or should?”

Maglor winced. “Both?”

Eärendil rolled his eyes. “If you wanted me gone, I would not be here.”

Maglor’s eyes widened in fear and he scrambled away, abandoning his harp and holding up his hands in a gesture of surrender. Eärendil found his eyes lingering on his right hand and the scars there, discolouring the skin on his palm and twisting in lines about his fingers. If that was what his hand looked like after daily care from Elrond, he shuddered to think what it must have been like when the burn was fresh.

“I would never hurt you!”

No, Eärendil thought, he wouldn’t, not unless Elrond or Celebrían were somehow threatened by him. Then, Eärendil suspected, he would be in grave danger. But that was beside the point.

“If you wanted me gone, a word to Elrond at the start would have had me banished from this place and from his heart. Even now, I am sure you could convince him with little effort.”

Maglor slowly lowered his hands to the grass. He looked at his abandoned harp, then back to Eärendil and said,

“We can fix this. We will fix this without making it Elrond’s problem.”

“We can,” Eärendil agreed. He began by speaking openly of his fears and his hopes, watching Maglor’s reaction the entire time. Bit by bit, Maglor began to relax and share some of his own fears.

Even after their disagreement was resolved, Eärendil lingered, coaxing stories from Maglor about the twins’ childhood. Many of the stories he shared were told through song, and Eärendil wondered just how many of Elrond’s early memories were bound up in Maglor’s music.

When they parted at last, they parted on good terms. Eärendil returned to his ship confident that he had not only solved a disagreement but made a friend.

*

“Do you think you could speak with your mother?” Eärendil asked one day.

He knew it was a foolish hope. Even if Elrond agreed, there was no guarantee Elwing would agree, also. But while he expected rejection, he did not expect Elrond’s expression to close and his posture to shift a little, his spine straightening. Despite the stern frown on his face, there was pity in his eyes when he said,

“I am anathema to Lady Elwing, and the words she spoke in her grief did great harm to my family. I am disinclined to put myself through that again. I will not be asked again.”

Eärendil bowed his head. Elrond’s tone brooked no argument, and even if there had been uncertainty in his tone, he would not want to risk distressing his son again. It grieved him, though, to know there was no chance of healing between them. But Elrond continued, his tone gentling:

“However, as a healer, I would advise encouraging her to speak with one of my former students trained in healing fëa-sickness. I cannot help her, but that does not mean she should be left to suffer.”

From what Eärendil knew of Elrond’s craft, it was a wise suggestion, but there was one obvious problem.

“I do not know if she would consent to that.”

Elrond gave him a crooked smile.

“Fortunately, some of my students had little love for me or my House. They came to me to learn, but they could not see past my family and left soon after. They tend to specialize in kinslaying trauma, so they will be well suited to your needs, and having worked with me they will know how I usually handle cases such as hers. I can give you a list of names. Whatever my feelings, she deserves a chance to heal.”

“Cases such as hers?”

“You think she is the first to grieve the Princes of Sirion?” Elrond asked, and bitterness crept into his tone when he mentioned the title. “I have been called traitor, bewitched, ensnared, amnesiac, a broken hostage, confused – I have lost count of the claims!”

And each claim Elrond took as an insult not just to himself, but to his brother and his fathers. Eärendil winced. He had no doubt Elrond had borne it well in public, but that may have only served to make the pain cut deeper.

“Well, you do not seem bewitched to me.”

“You have seen me argue with Atya too many times to think me some mindless drone made dumb by his singing or beaten into submission,” Elrond said drily. “That is what they expect, usually. Because I am the very picture of an obedient son.”

Eärendil laughed, for at first glance Elrond seemed anything but, but when he thought a little longer, he said, “And yet, in many ways you are precisely what many noble lords look for in a son. You are loyal and wise, and in taking up leadership of his House you have lead them to greater heights than any expected the House of Fëanor to see again.”

“Adar!” Elrond protested, but there was a smile on his face and his face flushed with pleasure. Eärendil had heard that embarrassed, whining tone aimed at Maglor and even long-standing soldiers of the House of Fëanor who had known Elrond since childhood, but he had never directed it at Eärendil before. From what Eärendil understood of fatherhood, this was a clear victory.

 

*

Somehow, Eärendil's visits to Elrond turned to visits to Elrond-and-Maglor. He enjoyed Maglor’s company and his humour when it was not too dark, and most of the time they discussed things other than Elrond. Occasionally, however, some pressing issue came up and they were forced to face more uncomfortable topics.

“You know,” Eärendil said, “I’m concerned about how our son speaks about the Valar.”

Across the table, Maglor raised an eyebrow. “I was wondering when you’d notice. How much have you noticed, by the way?”

“The night we met, Eönwë came, assuming you had attacked me to retrieve the Silmaril,” Eärendil said.

At the time, it had seemed like such a plausible thing, but now the words sounded absurd. Maglor was his friend. Raising blades against him in attack or defence could surely only happen if both of them were struck with madness. And if he were driven by the Oath – Eärendil shuddered at the very idea. For the first time, he understood something of the panic his son had shown that dreadful night and the bitterness with which he spoke of the gems.

At Eärendil's words, the blood drained from Maglor’s face. “Elrond did not tell me that.”

“I can’t imagine why,” Eärendil said drily. “But your reactions are not dissimilar. I did not realize it at the time, for I did not know him, but he was terrified. He spoke as if he were going to his death.”

He had said he had been glad to meet Eärendil, and Eärendil had not known that he had meant ‘before he died’.

“Of course he was terrified! He’d stolen a Silmaril for a kinslayer!” Maglor blurted.

Well. That explained where Elrond’s anxieties came from. Perhaps, in soothing the fears of the father, he could ease the fears of the son.

“He hurt no one.”

“Oh, I’m sure he made a point of saying that, too,” Maglor laughed bitterly, grief and fear and pride all mixing in one. “He’s a nightmare when he’s in a mood like that. Go on, then, tell me how it happened.”

Reluctantly, Eärendil did. Maglor did not seem remotely surprised to learn Eönwë had drawn his sword on their son, nor that Elrond had turned himself in so readily. He did, however, finish his cup of wine more quickly than Eärendil thought possible. He refilled it immediately after, drained it again, and refilled it once more. At the end of Eärendil's tale, he said,

“Well, on the bright side, it wasn’t Elros. He would have handled things much worse.”

“Are you sure you should be drinking so much?” Eärendil asked. Maglor raised an eyebrow and pointed at him with the hand holding the wine.

“You just told me my son invited Eönwë to kill him for the crime of being my son.”

Eärendil decided not to point out that Eönwë had definitely been considering it. “Yes, but he’s alive and well for you to fuss over. Though perhaps you could consider if it is wise passing on your fears of the Valar to him.”

Maglor snorted. “Oh, we did much worse than that. We taught them to form their own opinions. The more they learned about history, the more skeptical of the Valar they became. Elros once composed a speech comparing the evils of bedtime to the Valar restricting the freedom of movement of the Noldor. I just wanted him to go to sleep.”

There was a desperate, pleading note in Maglor’s voice in the last sentence that spoke of many long nights spent arguing over bedtime. A wistful longing struck Eärendil's heart and he abandoned his concern in pursuit of more stories of his sons as children. Maglor, who knew at least what it was to long for stories of your lost son, obliged him, telling yet more tales of all the mischief their sons had once caused.

*

“You switch to Sindarin whenever I approach,” Eärendil observed, addressing his son in Quenya to make his point. “I learned both Sindarin and Quenya in my youth. If you are more comfortable in that tongue, I am happy to use it.”

“A most gracious offer,” Elrond replied. His expression was carefully neutral, too neutral for Eärendil to trust, and his heart sank, wondering how he had given offence this time.

“But?”

“It’s nothing personal,” Elrond said apologetically. “Some of my dearest friends speak the Gondolin dialect. Glorfindel, for example! I would never think less of someone for such a thing.”

“The Gondolin dialect?” Eärendil echoed, flabbergasted.

Elrond stared at him for a few seconds, stunned, before he let out a theatrical groan and cast his eyes up to the sky.

“Ai, you don’t even know! You sá-sí, Adar, worse than anyone I have ever heard,” Elrond said accusingly, as though pronouncing words with an ‘s’ in place of ‘þ’ were deeply shameful. But Elrond did not stop there, listing multiple complaints with Eärendil's accent before catching himself and covering his mouth with his hand, his eyes widening in horror. Before Eärendil could even decide how to address the accusations, Elrond said,

“Oh, Adar, please forgive me. I did not mean to be so rude.”

Despite himself, Eärendil felt a corner of his mouth twitch in a traitorous smile. “But you do not deny thinking those things.”

“There is great virtue in diversity. I think Gondolin produced many great things and should be held in high esteem.”

It would be easy to take offence at Elrond’s opinions, but he was so plainly horrified at being caught out Eärendil was unable to resist teasing him a little.

“Strong words from someone who speaks the Fëanorian dialect.”

Elrond’s eyebrows shot up. His spine straightened a little and his chin tilted up a little, his entire posture radiating regal pride.

“What you so crassly deem ‘the Fëanorian dialect’ is the proper way of speaking Noldor Quenya. It is how High King Finwë himself spoke before he drifted astray. Substituting sounds as you do introduces confusion, draws our language further from its roots, and makes it harder for native Quenya speakers to learn other languages such as Teleri and Sindarin.”

Or, to put it another way, it was a Fëanorian convention Elrond felt very strongly about. Eärendil considered what he knew of Elrond’s pride and aggressive attachment to the Fëanorians and decided to risk a guess.

“No one would doubt you were one of them, you know. Even if you did sá-sí.”

Surprise flickered over Elrond’s face before Eärendil was rewarded with a warm smile.

“That is not precisely the point, but it was an astute guess, and I thank you for the compliment.”

“But?”

Elrond gave him a sideways glance. “I am who I am, Adar. You say to change the way I speak would not be a betrayal of my House, but I would be abandoning more than that. To speak as I do would surely be unnatural for you, just as to sá-sí is repulsive to me.”

As much as Eärendil had come to love Maglor’s friendship, he would never forgive him for the over-dramatic streak Elrond had developed. ‘Betrayal’ and ‘repulsive’ were strong words for an accent, but Elrond’s expression backed them up, his nose crinkling in disgust at the very mention of changing his speech. Before Eärendil could investigate that further, Elrond said,

“But I meant my words earlier, Adar. Many people who are dear to me have accents that are strange to me, even Gondolin accents such as yours. I am simply unused to the idea of having kin so close to me speak so.”

There were undoubtedly other forces at work here, but this, at least, was something Eärendil could understand and work with.

“I’m the first in your family who isn’t part of the House of Fëanor.”

“Well, there is Gil-galad,” Elrond said with a shrug. “But I am used to him, as he is to me. He knows me well enough that he would be alarmed if I were to be anyone other than myself. You still show surprise, sometimes, when I speak, just as I cannot always hide my reaction to your accent. And I have seen your eyes linger on my heraldry, or on the jewels I wear, and a dozen other signs I know mean you are dwelling on my House. I know it must be difficult for you, knowing I am so wholly and happily of a House other than yours.”

“But you are happily so,” Eärendil said, for that was what mattered most.

The smile Elrond gave him in response was at once blazingly bright and soft and filled with pity. “Yes, Adar. More happy than I think you understand.”

Eärendil bit back the urge to insist there would be at least as much pride and happiness to be had in his House, or in starting a House in Elrond’s own name. It was not a thought he had often, but when it was discussed so openly, so frankly, he could not stop himself imagining an Elrond who wore navy blue as proudly as he did crimson, pinning his cloak with Eärendil's heraldry and covering his house with six-pointed stars in place of eight. He had seen Elrond in blue, of course. He wore it as often as he wore any other colour. But there was a certain pride that entered his bearing when he dressed in the red of his House that danced on the knife-edge of arrogance, blunted and humbled by his gentleness and good humour.

He was about to ask if Elrond had ever considered a different house, but then a memory came to him. You will have to do more than just learn. You must love him and them as they are. And they are strange! So Celebrían had told him. She certainly had not been polite making her point, but if Elrond took such joy in this, perhaps the thought of losing it would bring him pain, even if it would be replaced with something of equal worth.

Instead of risking the question, he said, “Help me understand.”

And whatever grief Eärendil felt in his heart for what might have been, it paled in comparison to the joy he felt at the radiant smile Elrond gave him at that question.

*

“They’re staring at us,” Eärendil murmured.

“Likely taking bets on whether I’m going to attack you or if you’ve managed to rescue me from Atya,” Elrond replied, his soft voice dripping with irony. His face belied none of the mischief in his words, his expression as passive as if he were watching a river flow by. When Eärendil protested, he offered him a bland smile.

“They are used to seeing me with a different father.”

Something about that smile made Eärendil shudder. “You are too good at politics for your own good.”

“Of course. You have no idea how much effort it took not to become High King in the East,” Elrond retorted. He told then told Eärendil about his life in Gil-galad’s court, pausing here and there to buy herbs or laboratory equipment (for himself), books and ink (for Celebrían), and a stack of other gifts for everyone else in his life. Somehow, Eärendil ended up carrying most of his purchases.

It was not until Elrond led them towards the more residential part of the city, claiming there was a restaurant there he wanted to try, that a new thought came to Eärendil.

“Your grandparents live near here.”

Elrond paused in the middle of the street, peering at Eärendil with obvious concern. “But – oh! You mean your parents.”

After a moment of thought, a wave of horror rolled through Eärendil and he gripped Elrond’s shoulder for support. Fëanor. His son’s first thought when hearing ‘grandparents’ was Fëanor, and while Eärendil had reached a stage where he was proud to call Maglor a friend, the name of Fëanor himself still struck fear into his heart. He had come to accept Elrond’s attachment to the House of Fëanor as an extension of his attachment to Maglor, which Eärendil was able to accept. It had not even occurred to him that Elrond might think of Fëanor himself as his grandfather.

“We visit Grandmother, that is, Lady Nerdanel, often,” Elrond said, continuing as if he were completely oblivious to the minor breakdown he had just caused. “And I have met your grandfather, Turgon, through Fingon, and Nolo of course.”

“And?”

Eärendil tried not to hope. Elrond gave him a sheepish grin and responded,

“Fingon is very proud of Maedhros’ parenting skills.”

Whatever nascent hopes Eärendil had harboured were dashed. He had met Fingon several times and liked him. He was bold, adventurous, and friendly, but he could also be proud and brash. If he had decided to brag about Maedhros’ effect on Elrond, he would have shown all the subtlety and tact of a dragon invading a city. The fact that Elrond had not even thought to correct him and mention Eärendil's line would not have been missed by the rest of their relatives. Still sheepish, Elrond explained this introduction predated his introduction to Eärendil, so he had insisted his only link to the House of Fingolfin had been via Fingon himself. Eärendil's head ached when he thought of how twisted that made his family tree, but Elrond seemed unperturbed.

“After all,” he said cheerfully, “Fingon is Atto’s husband and has been campaigning for the title of ‘Atar’ for a while. But I am waiting for the right moment. Something tells me when the time comes to use it, I’ll know.”

Eärendil considered trying to convince his son that three fathers was enough but gave up before he began. He suspected he would lose that argument quickly.

They spent the rest of the afternoon visiting Eärendil's relatives and introducing (or re-introducing) Elrond to them. Elrond, to his credit, took the suspicious and confused looks he often got with grace. Eärendil's parents accepted him readily enough, having never met him before, and Elrond was torn between delight and bitter grief at meeting an immortal Man. When Tuor tried to comfort him, Elrond shook his head, saying,

“You must be tired of dealing with elves who do not understand. I do not wish to burden you further. I only miss my brother and my children.”

“That is a better reason to weep than most I have heard,” Tuor told him. Elrond cried harder at that, but the bitterness between them was gone, and they parted not as strangers but as family.

Meeting the rest of Eärendil's relatives went less well. They had already been introduced to Elrond as the son of Maedhros and Maglor and wondered at what seemed to them to be a sudden change of heart. Turgon, especially, looked at him with suspicion. He took Eärendil aside and spoke to him quietly of betrayal and failure and the lives both kinds of mistake had cost in Beleriand. It took Eärendil some difficulty to connect the vague words to his son, but when he did, he pulled away from his grandfather in disgust.

“Must I recount my son’s deeds for you? They are better proof of his heart than anything else I or his other fathers could tell you.”

Turgon opened his mouth to continue arguing, then closed it when they were interrupted. If Elrond overheard their discussion, he gave no sign of it. He remained polite and friendly the entire time, listening with interest to Elenwë’s stories and patiently answering all of her questions about his life in Middle Earth and the sons he had left there.

It was not until they left that Turgon said to Eärendil,

“I will consider what you said.”

It was not the love Eärendil thought his son deserved, but it was the best he could hope for to begin with.

Eärendil thought that would be the last visit of the day, but Elrond turned towards Fingolfin’s palace without waiting for direction. When Eärendil protested, confessing that he had never met the former High King, Elrond smiled and said,

“Then it will be my turn to do the introductions! Nolo will never forgive me if I visit half his relatives but do not stop by to say ‘hello’, and I cannot give him that kind of ammunition in our game."

“Game?”

Instead of answering, Elrond led him past the guards and in through the main gate of the palace. Eärendil tried not to panic. In his youth, such a thing might have seemed easy, but he met so few people now, and Fingolfin was a figure from legend. A retainer greeted them at the door, calling Elrond by name and asking in Quenya after the identity of his guest.

“This is my birth-father, Lord Eärendil.”

The retainer gave Elrond a look that Eärendil couldn’t parse. Elrond smiled back at him. Whatever their host was thinking, he said nothing of it and led them through to a grand sitting room decorated in blue and silver. Fingolfin himself sat in a chair by the window reading a book. He looked up when they came in, his face splitting into a smile. He greeted Eärendil appropriately for unknown but welcome kin, but when he turned to Elrond he spread his arms wide and adopted an arrogant, almost predatory smirk that made Eärendil's skin crawl.

“Elrond, little one, you would not believe the rumours I have heard today! Could it be you have finally had a change of heart?”

Elrond pouted a little and said pleadingly, “Not today, Nolo.”

Fingolfin’s expression immediately changed. Gone was the predatory smile dripping with smugness, replaced in an instant by pure sympathy as he wrapped an arm around Elrond’s shoulders and ushered him over to a nearby chair.

“Are you well? You normally love playing offence at such remarks.”

A wince stole over Elrond’s face. “I may owe Adar an apology on that front. I do not think he will find such things as amusing as we do.”

That earned Eärendil a stern look from the king. “He will learn to find it amusing. Your House needs this kind of bickering even more than the rest of us do. Even Maedhros needed it, and he was the most good-natured Fëanorian I have ever met before you. And our sparring will help develop your political skills. I have seen you at court, and you are far too gentle with your opponents.”

“I do not know what it is I am supposed to find amusing or take offence to,” Eärendil said, unable to keep a pleading note from his tone. However he had imagined his meeting with the former High King going, it was not like this. Fingolfin and Elrond exchanged a look.

“I am sure you noticed that each time you introduced me to your kin, they assumed I considered myself part of your House, or perhaps part of Nolo’s House – and that I had either done so all along, or recently changed my opinion,” Elrond said. He waited for a nod, before continuing somewhat sheepishly, “Many people have made a similar assumption. Nolo made a similar assumption when we met and I overreacted.”

“You were as rude as your grandfather ever was, but you have all his bark and none of his bite,” Fingolfin said affectionately. “And you gave a very sweet apology after Makalaurë told you off.”

“I should not have needed to be told off!” Elrond protested.

“You were more polite than I would be if someone tried to get me to renounce Finwë as my father,” Fingolfin said with a shrug. That gave Elrond pause, his hand moving to his chin as he thought.

Eärendil was suddenly very, very glad he had not asked Elrond if he had ever considered changing his house. He did not like the thought of either the argument that would have ensued or the pain his question would have caused his son.

To Eärendil, Fingolfin explained,

“I know how Noldor work, and I know how Fëanorians work better than most. Once we understood each other, I realised I could joke of such things and get such amusing reactions out of little Elrond, which gives him an opportunity to be as venomous as he wishes about it. He has Makalaurë’s talent for drama, I think, because he is very good at it.”

“On that last point, we are in full agreement,” Eärendil said, unable to stop a snort of laughter. But he could not stop his worry and asked, “Are such games wise?”

Elrond shrugged a little. “If it were a wound inflicted only once, I would advise simply talking about it. But it is inflicted again, and again, and I am afraid of what I would turn into if I did not have some chance to bleed the poison from myself.”

“Nothing dreadful, I am certain. You are too gentle,” Fingolfin soothed, squeezing Elrond’s shoulder. Elrond looked up at him with a smile.

This, Eärendil thought with a pang of bitterness, was what he had hoped to give Elrond in introducing him to his relatives, for Fingolfin treated Elrond as a much-beloved part of his family and Elrond basked in the affection like a flower turning towards the sun. And as glad as Eärendil was that Elrond had found such a thing, a part of him wished that the crux of their game did not lie on Elrond rejecting the idea he could ever be anything other than wholly Fëanorian.

*

When scarcely a month of Eärendil's time on land remained, Elrond came to him with several sheets of paper and said,

“If you intend to visit whenever you are able, you should have your own rooms here.”

Eärendil tried to protest, but Elrond held up a hand.

“It is easier for us if you have your own space. The guest rooms will be available for other guests and we will know your space is designed to your tastes.”

Eärendil let out a sigh. He had learnt, by now, that arguing with his son was doomed to failure regardless of the topic. “I will never forgive Maglor for teaching you to argue so well.”

“Oh, that was Maedhros,” Elrond said brightly. “I don’t think Maglor forgives him, either.”

First, Elrond told him, they must decide where he would live. Elrond would make room for him in the family wing, but he recommended an adjoining wing under development for honoured guests and kin not of their House. There was a familiar, crooked little smile on his face as he explained.

For the first time, Eärendil was shown the private family wing in Elrond’s home. The door was marked by a Fëanorian star flanked by golden flowers (a nod, Elrond explained, to Celebrían's heritage) and opened onto a stone hall centred on a fountain. A second star, Eärendil noted, was carved into the floor of the hall. He wondered how many stars he would count if he cared to and suddenly understood why Elrond thought he may be more comfortable elsewhere. It had never occurred to him that his son could be being subtle in his House affiliation in public, but now he had seen his private space, he had to concede Elrond did restrain himself admirably.

The family sitting room was a large, airy room that opened onto the gardens. The walls were lined with bookshelves and many different musical instruments were there. Celebrían sat at a desk near the window, pouring over an ancient tome, while Maglor sat with his harp and played for her. Though Elrond’s family was small, the hall was large enough to comfortably sit over a dozen people. When Eärendil commented on this, Elrond simply smiled and said,

“We have many guests dear to us, and my sons will join us in time. And I have high hopes Maedhros will soon be returned.”

High hopes, indeed. If Maedhros wasn’t returned soon, Eärendil feared Elrond would storm the Halls of Mandos.

Out of deference for Eärendil's curiosity, Elrond showed him his own bedroom and the adjoining bathroom, decorated in pale colours that made the occasional splash of vibrant crimson stand out all the more. He pointed out which doors held rooms for his sons and which were reserved for other kin. One of the doors was marked with Maglor’s coat-of-arms in silver, while another bore a strange combination of Fëanorian heraldry and heraldry from Fingolfin’s line. Space had been set aside for additional rooms and the house was not yet finished, with the upper floors still to be constructed and many more rooms to come.

After showing Eärendil the family wing, Elrond led him to the adjoining wing he recommended for Eärendil's rooms. The first door they passed bore the heraldry of King Gil-galad, but he recognized also rooms set aside for a few other great houses who were apparently regular enough visitors and dear enough to Elrond’s family to warrant permanent accommodation.

“Would you like to meet Gil-galad?” Elrond asked, as if it were every day one were introduced to a High King. Given Elrond’s blood and adopted lineage, it may well be for him. He had certainly not hesitated to call on Fingolfin without any warning. For Eärendil, who spent half the year with no one but his reflection for company, it was a rather daunting prospect, but the stories Elrond had shared made it clear Gil-galad was important to him, so he agreed to meet him. Elrond knocked on the appropriate door and entered when called.

“I’m showing Adar this wing of the house,” Elrond explained as he stepped in. Gil-galad, looking up from a stack of paperwork at his desk, gave Elrond the most exhausted look Eärendil had ever seen an elf wear in his life.

“Does this mean you apologize for the chaos you and Elros caused every time someone dared acknowledge Lord Eärendil was your father?”

“You should know better than that, brother,” Elrond said, his mouth curving in a very particular smile Eärendil had only seen rarely but learnt quickly to treasure.

Gil-galad groaned, letting his head fall into his hands. “Elrond, Elros nearly started a war over his lineage once. You owe me an apology. You owe me a dozen apologies.”

“Those diplomats nearly started a war by insulting my brother,” Elrond countered.

Despite the grave topic and implied insult, Eärendil found himself fighting a smile. All of Elrond’s patience and wisdom went out the window, it seemed, when it came to siding with Elros. Elrond then turned to Eärendil and said, “As you can see, Adar, the rooms here are no different in size to my own, and each suite is designed according to the tastes of the occupant.”

Eärendil listened politely, but more interesting than the room to him was the friend Elrond plainly adored. They bickered and teased each other incessantly, acting more like immature teenagers than king and herald. If nothing else, Gil-galad’s ability to make Elrond smile so brightly after just moments together made him someone valuable beyond measure.

After they left, Elrond sat him down and began to work on the designs for his room. It would not be completed this year, but when he returned after his long journey in the sky, there would be a place waiting for him in Elrond’s home.

*

A few nights before his final visit of the year, Eärendil went to Elrond and said,

“It is tradition among the Noldor for a father to teach his son his craft. Your fathers taught you everything they know and there is little I could do to improve upon their teaching, but there is one matter in which I am the expert. Would you sail with me tonight?”

“Is that allowed?”

Eärendil laughed. “I never thought I would hear you worrying about the rules of the Valar. They never told me not to do so, and I have taken your mother out without reprisal.”

“In that case, I would be honoured,” Elrond replied, bowing his head. It took all of Eärendil's self-control not to scold him for his formality, instead instructing him to dress warmly and meet him an hour before sunset at the docks.

He was met at the docks not just by Elrond but by a large party of Elrond’s house. Both Celebrían and Maglor were there, as well as a dozen guards in Fëanorian crimson looking like something out of one of Eärendil's nightmares. It was only long practice that kept his face calm. Though a few did look to the Silmaril, most were focused on Elrond and his family and a few even called out to Eärendil in greeting. Maglor, predictably, appeared to be fretting over Elrond, hovering anxiously by his shoulder. As they approached, he heard Elrond’s voice carrying across the water.

“I promise, Atya, it is just for one night. I will return in the morning.”

“I know,” Maglor said wretchedly.

“I would not go if it were for longer,” Elrond said firmly.

Elrond embraced each member of his group and shared a kiss with Celebrían before joining Eärendil on his ship with a sheepish smile. He wore the same cloak he had worn to meet Eärendil, and Eärendil recognized the heraldry now as that of Númenor. It would be nice to think Elrond had worn it that night to have something of Elros with him when he reunited with his father, but he had a dreadful suspicion it was so that Elros was there as he fulfilled the Oath. But whichever it had been, it warmed Eärendil's heart to see it now.

Under Eärendil's close supervision, Elrond prepared Vingilótë to set out to Sea. Eärendil took the lead once they were underway, but he had Elrond help where he could and talked him through each task as he did it. Elrond proved an excellent student. He had some knowledge of ships and what various things were called, though the words he used for them were often strange, and the rocking of the waves did not bother him.

“You have been at Sea before. More than just the journey West.”

Elrond rolled his eyes. “Númenor was an island, Adar.”

At the same time, Elrond reached for his mind and showed him a memory. To Eärendil, it looked as if Elrond if he had aged decades by the count of Men but still stood hale and strong. He stood at the helm of a great ship. The figure turned and made eye contact. For just one second, he felt the double-existence that had been Elrond-and-Elros together before Elrond yanked him out of the memory. In the present, Elrond stood before him with a smile on his face and tears in his eyes.

“I avoided the Sea for so long because it made me think of Elros, and I grieved. I think of him still, but now I only feel closer to him, and the grief is not so near.”

He then turned back to his task and spoke of his brother no more.

Once Vingilótë had left the sea for the sky and her course was set, Eärendil gave Elrond leave to rest a while as he saw fit. He went immediately to the prow. Eärendil's heart sunk. He turned his back, guessing what he would see. He felt his heart split in two when Elrond’s voice said,

“It’s beautiful.”

Without turning, he could picture all too well the enraptured awe on his son’s face. It was the same look Elwing wore each time she sailed with him, her face ever turned towards the Silmaril. But when he finally gathered the courage to look to Elrond, his eyes were cast not towards the Silmaril, but to Middle Earth below. It was not long before he let out a cry and said,

“Adar, look, there is Imladris!”

There was a hunger in Elrond’s words, and Eärendil remembered Maglor warning him that Elrond had sailed for Celebrían's sake only. Joining him at the prow, he peered down at the valley his son called home. His grandsons were down there, somewhere. He wondered what Elladan and Elrohir were like. He had seen portraits of them, and in looks they were much like their father save in height, and they towered over him.

A little later, Elrond called out again, this time pointing to a white dot blazing with light.

“Minas Tirith! Arwen is there, and Estel!”

Eärendil looked again in wonder. Since the sinking of Beleriand, the lands of Middle Earth had been strange to him, but Elrond seemed to know and love every rock and every tree. There was a whole world beneath them that Elrond loved. Eärendil did not think he would ever look at it the same way again, nor would he ever quite escape the nagging feeling that Elrond ought to be able to travel to and fro as he saw fit.

As the world turned beneath them, the lands shifted and became strange. Elrond knew nothing of these lands but he wondered about them with a scholar’s enthusiasm. There were plants he had found in Valinor that could never have grown in his home but could well have grown in the lands to the south, he guessed, and now he would never know if his guess was true.

When at last they began to set and made course for Valinor, Elrond lifted his head and flushed.

“Adar, I know I am meant to be learning, but may I go straight to shore when we land? Atya is waiting still.”

Eärendil could not help raising an eyebrow. “You can sense him from here?”

Elrond shrugged a little. “Ósanwë has always come easily to me, and it is easy to find Atya when he is searching for me instead of hiding himself.”

Ósanwë has always come easily to me, Elrond said, as if being able to reach Maglor at such a distance did not imply a parent-child bond of terrifying strength. Eärendil could not have reached anyone at this distance if his very life had depended on it. He certainly could not have reached Elrond. He could not reach Elrond from across a room if Elrond did not look for him first. How insignificant their fledgling bond must seem to him! He had delighted in Elrond allowing the formation of a bond at all, among the first of their kind to form such a bond as an adult, but what they had was a guttering candle compared to the blazing sun of his bond to his adoptive father.

Still, Eärendil would not keep Elrond from Maglor if Elrond wanted to go to him. He did not have the will to deny his son what he wanted, nor was he willing to wage war against Maglor when he knew well Maglor would not do the same against him. He gave Elrond his permission and was rewarded with a swift hug.

“Thank you, Adar.”

Despite his request for leave, Elrond worked diligently until Vingilótë was docked. Rather than help with tying her up, he leaped from the ship into Maglor’s waiting arms. Eärendil tried not to eavesdrop on their conversation, but he could not avoid hearing Elrond’s laughter or his accented Quenya. It was not so long ago the sound disquieted him, but now he found the strange accent pleased him, for it was his son’s voice. It was strange, he thought, that such a thing comforted him. It was a blatant reminder that Elrond was not the son Eärendil would have raised, but he was a son to be proud of and love nevertheless.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Comments and kudos always greatly appreciated, y'all are what keep me writing <3

The next planned entries are Maedhros, Namo/Mandos, and Feanor.