TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
If You Give An Elf Blunt Force Trauma	electroniccollectiondonut	2024-03-14	2024-03-14	2,369	1/?	36	35	3	186

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Teen And Up Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
[NONE]	Original Female Character(s), Fëanor (Tolkien), Fingolfin (Tolkien), Írimë | Lalwen (Tolkien), Finarfin (Tolkien), Findis (Tolkien)	quenya as a second language: the fic!, seriously i LEARNED QUENYA for this., and god willing i'll make you learn it too, Modern Era, Quenya, Light Angst

SUMMARY
...you're going to have to let him stay at your house while he recovers.

 

Finwë orders his children to go on a sibling bonding camping trip. Instead of the mountains of Valinor, they end up in the mountains of Colorado. In Mari Reading's defense, she didn't expect anyone to be walking down the highway at midnight in minus twenty.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Chapter 1


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
This fic has been a long time in the making. I've been adding to the fantasy every time I'm bored for years. YES Mari is a little bit a self insert, NO I don't care. I thought about tagging this as crack treated seriously but it's not crack to me, so. Also, the title is totally a play off If You Give A Mouse A Cookie. In my mind, this takes place not too long before the Ambarussa were born.


CHAPTER 1
It’s dark, and snowing, and she’s driving way too fast. Mari should know better by now, she grew up around here, but she’s tired and drained and she doesn’t want to be going up to the house. Not when she knows it’s empty. So when she comes around a blind corner and there’s a person standing there in her headlights, it’s all she can do to hit the brakes and swerve.

There’s a thunk, the sort of thunk that happens when you hit a deer and the force rips off your side-view, and the whole world spins into a blur of light and snow and panic. The second the car stops spinning, blessedly unharmed, she shifts into park and throws herself out the door, orienting herself in the glow of the headlights and scrambling for the still lump lying in the road at the edge of the light.

Her first thought is oh thank god, he’s not dead. Her second, completely overriding any other conscious thought, is that that is not a human person. He’s an alien. Or a faerie. Or an angel. Whatever he is, he’s not human. There’s a faint, shimmering glow around him, and the sharp face and the inky hair and the clothes…

And then he groans, pained, and Mari snaps back to focus. Human or not, she just hit him with her car going sixty. There’s blood spilling from a jagged slice across his chest, she’d guess where the broken mirror caught him, and she can see a faint sinking to his side that she can only assume is the result of broken ribs. But he’s breathing, albeit sharp and shallow, and he’s looking up at her with eyes like starlight given physical form, and she can’t not help him.

This is the part where she should call 911, but her phone is still in the car, and there’s not service this deep in the canyon anyway, and even if there was she cannot stress enough that this is not a human person and she has no idea what the authorities would do with him if she called.

Stop the bleeding first, she decides, because she’s had broken ribs before and there’s not anything she can do about those except painkillers, so bleeding out seems like a much more immediate concern. Mari feels like her brain is short-circuiting. She knows first aid, but panic is keeping her from getting at what she knows. She takes a deep breath. Okay. He’s bleeding. Need to make him stop bleeding. Pressure.

Mari takes off her sweater and balls it up and presses it to the wound. He keens, low and catching on a sob, as she leans onto him.

“Sorry,” she says. “Sorry, I’m sorry, I know it hurts, I’m sorry. Just… just stay awake, okay?”

And then another one appears. Another of these… people.

At first, she thinks the other figure is some specter meant to terrify her. Her night can hardly get any worse , after all, so it may as well get more frightening instead. He appears kneeling on the other side of her patient so suddenly and silently that her mind immediately jumps to ghost. Then she clocks the solidity of him, the hands right next to hers and the clearly audible, completely undistorted voice. So, not a ghost. Not unless her assumptions about ghosts are very incorrect.

She doesn’t recognise the language he’s speaking. Has no frame of reference for it at all, in fact, so she can’t even cobble it together like she can with a lot of languages. It doesn’t sound like any language she knows. But the tone is encouragement mingled with urgency, which is pretty much what she would expect from the situation, so she decides to trust that he knows what he’s doing.

He takes over staunching the bleeding, and she’s pretty sure that beneath her blood-soaked sweater she can see skin knitting itself back together faster than should be possible. It’s going to be ruined, she thinks with some small measure of disappointment. She loved that sweater. But the new figure, blond haired with softer features than the first, seems to have the situation under control, so she leans back on her heels and takes stock.

She can feel road rash on her shins from where she slammed to her knees and slid across icy asphalt, and snow is starting to settle lightly across her shoulders. She’s cold, but her car is right there, idling warmly in park and still playing her driving playlist on shuffle, so she’s not too worried about it. When she looks up at the trees lining the edge of the road she can see three other figures, only visible by their faint glow. She’s almost sure they’re choosing to let her see them, that if they wanted to hide she’d have no idea as to their presence.

Mari tries to dredge up some panic about that, she really does, but she’s had such a long week already that the revelation that the supernatural is real and can be run over with her car is really just the cherry on top. As she makes eye contact with one of the figures, they slink out into the light. There are two more with black hair and another blond, all looking warily between her and the injured one.

It doesn’t seem like they’re going to attack her for hurting one of their own. Still. She swallows nervously and gets to her feet, wincing a little as torn skin tears a little more when she yanks her bare legs free from the rapidly freezing pool of blood, and backs off a few steps so they can all crowd around their wounded member.

She walks back to the car, keeping half an eye on her strange visitors. She unplugs her phone from the aux cord and pockets it, and puts on the sandals sitting in the footwell so she’s at least not barefoot in the negative double digits weather, and shuts the door and goes to dig a new hoodie out of the trunk.

When she turns back to them, shaking her phone to activate the flashlight, one of the black haired ones is looking at her intensely, and the injured one is sitting up braced against the blond man. (Is ‘man’ even applicable?) The one looking at her stands and walks over. He reaches out first for her phone, marveling over the light, and when she instinctively jerks it away from his questing hands, he straightens up and focuses.

To be the object of this man’s focus is galling, to say the very least. It reminds her of being fourteen and presenting at the state science fair, drawing herself up to face the judges despite the shaking nerves.

He speaks, in that melodic, utterly alien language. It means nothing to her, and she shakes her head and shrugs to indicate as much.

“I don’t understand you, I’m sorry,” she says, half hoping that whatever supernatural forces have appeared on her metaphorical doorstep will miraculously speak English. They don’t, it turns out, and he shakes his head in equal confusion. She frowns and tries again in Spanish, which gets the same results, and then just for good measure, though she’s entirely certain it won’t help, she signs it too.

He speaks again, very slowly. It’s all nonsense, she’s sure the slower speed won’t help with that, but she understands why he’s slowed down at least, and she does her best to be communicated with.

He puts his hand to his chest to indicate himself, and then he says, very clearly, “Fëanáro.”

Which is-

Not possible? She knew, the moment she laid eyes on the injured one that he wasn’t human. Elf doesn’t seem any more impossible an answer than what she’d already come up with.

Made up elf from a book is, admittedly, a little harder to swallow, but really not by much. She’s fairly sure she’ll freak out about all this at a later date, but for now she’s a bit short on emotional energy, so…

She gestures to herself. “Mari.” Looks at him. He’s not as much taller than her as she would have expected. “Fëanáro?”

He nods. “Fëanáro. Mari?”

She takes a deep breath. This is all far too much. She points to the one she hit with her car and makes a questioning face

“Nolofinwë,” Fëanáro tells her. Which is totally fine. Not the most impossible thing she’s ever experienced at all!

Mari looks at Nolofinwë and does her best to clearly mime contrition. “I’m sorry. Sorry.”

When he speaks, his voice still pained, it has the tone of forgiveness.

She takes a second to think on what to do, then turns back to Fëanáro ( Christ that’s hard to comprehend). She nods very pointedly. “Yes.” Then she shakes her head. “No.” She repeats the motion and the words, then shrugs and looks confusedly at him. She really hopes she’s managing to convey what she means.

Fëanáro looks at her for a moment, then he copies her nod. “Ná. Yes?”

“Yes,” Mari agrees. “Ná? Yes ná?”

“Yes ná.” He shakes his head. “No? Lá?”

Mari nods and shakes her head again, using ná and lá this time instead of yes and no, and looks at him to confirm. Okay, good, she has words for yes and no now.

“Right,” Mari says to herself. She points to her car. “Car,” she enunciates carefully. She sketches a house in the snow with her toe and says, “House,” and points again to her car, and attempts to mime travel. “Car. House. Help. Uh-” She casts around for some way to explain help visually, then points to her bloody sweater pressed to Nolofinwë’s wound. She mimes stitching and bandaging, and then eating and resting. “Help.”

She looks at Fëanáro, trying to decide if he looks like he’s understood her. He looks like he’s following, somewhat, so she gestures to all of them and then her car. “You… car,” She points up the road. “House. Help. Ná, lá? Help, ná, lá?”

“Help lá…” Fëanáro begins, in an exaggeratedly questioning tone. He gestures around at the area and then points firmly to the ground they’re standing on. “Help ná …” he points to her car. Mari has always hated charades, but she thinks he’s clarifying that help involves getting in the car and leaving this area.

“Ná. Ná help, ná car. Lá help, lá car.” She would feel more ridiculous, probably, except that her last job involved a lot of communication in broken sentences so she’s got plenty of experience in not feeling ridiculous.

Fëanáro turns around to confer with the rest of the group. They talk rapid-fire for a few moments, and then he turns back to her.

“Ná help. Car.”

“Okay,” Mari says. She half-jogs over to the car. “Okay, so…” She’s not entirely sure how to go about this, but she opens up the back door and looks over. Surely it can’t be that hard to teach ‘get in the car’.

She looks back to the group, hoping for a volunteer. She makes an expectant face and spreads her hands out questioningly. The black haired woman steps forward gamely and she gestures to the seat.

“Sit,” she says, forcing down the instinct to accompany it with the hand sign because she knows it won’t help her be understood. “Sit.”

“Sit,” the woman repeats back, and Mari can hear the utter uncomprehension in her voice. She points to herself. “Irimë.” Which means the other two are probably Arafinwë and Findis.

“Mari,” she says, and Irimë nods. “Sit.” She knows please in Quenya. She does. Oh, what is it… “Mecin, sit.”

Irimë looks at her, eyebrows raised. “Quenya?” she asks.

Mari shakes her head and holds her hand up with finger and thumb very close together to indicate not much. “Lá Quenya. Uh, pitya. Pitya Quenya. Sit, mecin.”

Irimë nods again, and then climbs into the seat in the car. She's a little hesitant, but not afraid.

Mari calls for attention. “Hey! Watch,” she says, gesturing for look . She grabs the seatbelt and holds it out for them all to see, then buckles it. She unbuckles it and then hands it to Irimë and gestures for her to try. “Seatbelt. Safe.”

She looks around and sees understanding on all the faces, so she nods to herself. Okay. She gestures to the group again. “Now, you get in the car. Car. You car. Car, seatbelt.”

She steps back and keeps an eye on the proceedings as her car fills with elves. It's incredibly hard to believe, and she idly wonders if she actually totaled her car and knocked herself into a coma. There's no way to know if she did, though, so it's probably in her best interest to at least act like this is real.

She directs Nolofinwë to the front seat. He’s healing up impossibly quickly, but he's still far from whole. When they’re all in and seatbelted, she nods and gestures for them to stay right where they are.

She shuts all the doors and looks around for her broken off side-view mirror. She finds it off to the side in the snow, and she grabs it and tosses it in the back floorboard when she gets in the car. She'll get it fixed in town tomorrow.

“Okay,” she says to herself. “Okay. I’ve got this.”

She gets into the driver’s seat and turns so she can see them all. She mimes being loud and disruptive, then shakes her head. “Lá noisy. Lá noisy. Mecin.”

The one she’s guessing is Arafinwë puts his finger to his lips and shushes, then gestures to all of them, and then looks at her questioningly. “Ná?”

“Ná,” Mari agrees, and puts her finger to her lips. “You quiet. You behave. Mecin. Ná?”

She gets back a chorus of ‘ná’s (and a ‘yes’ from Fëanáro, which somehow doesn’t surprise her) and nods. She turns around and buckles herself in. She plugs her phone back in and hits shuffle, which has all eyes suddenly wide and focused on the speakers, but she’s not driving another hour without music.

“Okay,” she declares, “off we go.”


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]