TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
The Lost of Aman	mornen	2022-05-13	2022-05-13	1,050	1/?	10	34	2	356

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Teen And Up Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Fingon | Findekáno/Maedhros | Maitimo, Maedhros | Maitimo & Maglor | Makalaurë, Fëanor | Curufinwë/Nerdanel, Anairë/Fingolfin | Ñolofinwë	Maedhros | Maitimo, Maglor | Makalaurë, Fingon | Findekáno, Finrod Felagund | Findaráto, Fëanor | Curufinwë, Nerdanel (Tolkien), Curufin | Curufinwë, Caranthir | Morifinwë, Fingolfin | Ñolofinwë, Anairë (Tolkien)	Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Family, Family Dynamics, Cousins, Slice of Life, College, Angst, Fluff, Domestic Fluff, Family Drama, Road Trips, Quenya Names

SUMMARY
It has been five years since Fëanor accidentally sent his extended family from Valinor to modern day Earth.

Makalaurë is an opera singer living in New York City and travelling the world. Findekáno and Maitimo are trying to hold their families together. Fëanáro is restless, and falling apart.

Findaráto wants to be a psychiatrist. The younger children are adapting faster, but they are not aware of what they will face as the only immortal beings in a mortal world.

Things are bound to come out.

(It is not necessary to read the first work of this series to understand this one. Of any discrepancies between the two this is the 'right' one.)

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Chapter 1


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 1
The highway is all blurring together as the night wears on, and Findekáno is trying to stay awake for Maitimo, but he wants to fall into selfish sleep. The headlights of other cars grow farther and farther apart as time passes. Findekáno turns the heat down a bit. It’s not enough to keep him awake with how cosy the warmth of the car is, so he cracks the window open a bit. In the back seat Findaráto lifts his head.

‘Oh, please,’ he says. ‘I don’t want it cold.’

‘Bratty baby cousins sleeping in the back seat do not get to make any decisions,’ Maitimo rules.

‘Boo.’ Findaráto puts his head back down on his pillow and pulls his blanket up higher to his nose. He tugs his sleeping mask back into place.

Findaráto will talk non stop for the ride when there are interesting things to see out the windows, but any time they’re on the highway, he’ll go to sleep straight away.

Findekáno crosses his legs at the ankles. They’re going down a hill now, and the little Prius’s display is showing him how they’re entirely on battery now or something. The display has little green bars on it. He likes to watch them.

Maitimo reaches over annoyingly and tugs the cherry lollipop out of his mouth and pops it into his, which is very unfair, especially since Maitimo doesn’t even like sweets all that much.

‘Nelyo!’

But Nelyo just smiles, eyes gleaming bright with evil. He turns the music up a bit and hums along to the radio. Findaráto had been playing for them most of the day (when he wasn’t talking) but Findekáno cannot take his place, as he doesn’t have enough room in the front seat to play well. Findaráto just sits in the middle of the back seat and tries to dance there too.

Findekáno holds his hand out and waits. Nelyo relinquishes the lollipop soon enough.

Findaráto snores softly in the back. Findekáno scrambles for his phone and turns down the radio. He records it as a video because Findaráto is convinced he does not snore.

He will probably say, ‘No, you’re just making the sound behind the phone,’ but it’s good to have proof anyway.

They’re on their way to visit Kano. It’s been a few months since they last saw him, so this trip is long past due. Findekáno sucks his lollipop and watches the lights of some distance city as they pass over a stretch of highway not surrounded by fences, walls, or trees. There are so many cities.

‘Are you going to drive all night?’

‘Yes,’ Nelyo says.

Findekáno stretches. He looks back behind him at Findaráto.

‘Why does he like covering his eyes when he’s sleeping?’ he asks. If he were to fall asleep, he’d press the warmth of the drive and the colour of Maitimo’s hair into his dreams.

‘I think because humans do it,’ Maitimo says.

‘Hmm. He really likes humans.’

‘Don’t you?’

‘Yes, but I don’t want to be exactly like them.’

Maitimo shrugs. The problem is: they’re supposed to be human. Play human. Keep up eye contact for uncomfortably long periods of time. Not sing in the middle of conversations. Walk everywhere instead of running or skipping or dancing. It’s all so constrained.

That’s not what Findaráto wants, obviously. But he has tried his hardest to settle into a ‘human routine’ this past year. And he wants to be a psychiatrist or psychologist or something along those lines.

Maitimo rubs Findekáno’s shoulder.

‘Are you tired, love?’

‘It’s just very lulling,’ Findekáno stretches. He steals one of the pillows from the back and tucks it up against his shoulder so he can watch Maitimo as he drives. His hair is braided back on the top of his head and then twice on either side, but it’s loose down his back. He’s wearing a velvet shirt in a deep blue. And he has copper in his hair and on his fingers, made by his father.

 

‘Nelyo?’

‘Mmm?’

‘Is this car too small for you?’ Findekáno asks, already laughing as he says it. Nelyo gives him a dirty look.

‘Shut it.’

Findekáno smiles. He reaches out and plays with some of Maitimo’s loose hair. He twists it around his finger.

‘Now I’m wearing copper rings too.’

‘Ring,’ Maitimo says, pedantic.

Findekáno tugs his hair just a little since he’s driving.

‘Annoying.’

‘I can’t be annoying. I’m older than you.’

‘Horrid.’

‘You just don’t like it because I’m smarter than you.’

Findekáno slides his fingers out the window and feels them cutting through the air as the car flies down the highway. Houses with many dark windows and very few lit ones pass outside.

Maitimo rests his hand on Findekáno’s thigh. Findekáno puts his other hand over it. But he lifts his hand quickly and fiddles with braids.

He stares at the road ahead of him and swallows away the sudden weight of what exactly Maitimo’s hand on him makes him feel. He breathes in and out slowly and tries not to think about it. But he feels like he’s had the breath knocked out of his lungs.

‘What’s wrong?’ Maitimo says without lifting his hand away. He gives his leg a little squeeze.

‘Nothing’s wrong.’ Findekáno takes Maitimo’s hand and laces their fingers together. In the mirror he watches the road slip away into the night behind them. He can see Maitimo’s eyes in the mirror. Maitimo glances at him, but he’s driving, and he has to keep looking at the road. Findekáno looks in the back, but Findaráto is still sleeping.

‘What are we going to do?’ Findekáno says, and it’s vague enough that not even he knows entirely what he’s asking.

Maitimo looks at him again. His eyes are dark and silver flashing.

‘You’re going to have to be more specific than that.’

Findekáno shrugs. He squeezes his hand. He doesn’t want to talk about their families and their lives back home. He’s never been to New York City before. Makalaurë has always visited them. He can focus on that.

‘I was just thinking about Father,’ he says. ‘But I don’t really want to talk about it. We’re getting a nice little break from them.’

‘Yeah,’ Maitimo says.

And on they pass through the night.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
if mcr can release new music after many years I can write a sequel to an old fic after many years <3