TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Finding a Family	starlightwalking	2022-01-05	2022-01-05	7,754	1/1	15	155	13	1,593

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Teen And Up Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Fingon | Findekáno/Maedhros | Maitimo, Fëanor | Curufinwë & Fingon | Findekáno & Maedhros | Maitimo, Fëanor | Curufinwë & Fingon | Findekáno, Ereinion Gil-galad & Fingon | Findekáno & Maedhros | Maitimo, Ereinion Gil-galad & Námo | Mandos	Maedhros | Maitimo, Fingon | Findekáno, Fëanor | Curufinwë, Fingolfin | Ñolofinwë, Ereinion Gil-galad, Námo | Mandos, Fëanturi, Yavanna Kementári, Green-elves | Laiquendi	Gil-galad Son of Plothole, Gil-galad Russingonion, Adoption, elf adoption, Elfdoption, Re-embodied elves, Halls of Mandos, Happy AU, Alternate Universe - Nothing Bad Happens, well...mostly, referenced child death, he gets better it's fine, The Two Trees of Valinor, Quenya Names, Languages and Linguistics, Naming Ceremonies, Family Fluff, Temporary Character Death

SUMMARY
Maitimo and Findekáno wish for a child, and explore some rather unorthodox means of acquiring one.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Finding a Family


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
For ThatFeanorian.
A (rather belated) Christmas gift for the fantastic Fey!

This is a continuation of my “all things bright and beautiful” series, in which nothing bad happens and everyone is happy (for the most part). I kicked that ’verse off with a Russingon Arranged Marriage AU, jumped forward in time for a bit of Halenthir baby fluff, and now I’m returning to not long after the first fic to tell the story of how Maedhros and Fingon came to adopt Gil-galad! This is quite a different take on Gil than usual, but I had a lot of fun coming up with his story here. I hope you enjoy!

Notes and translations at the end!


CHAPTER 1
“Finno, I—”

“Russo, I wanted to—”

They each broke off, grinning at one another a little bashfully. Maitimo squeezed Findekáno’s hand, rolling over in bed until they were face to face, noses touching. Through their bond he felt a warm hum of love, ever-present, never-forgotten.

“You first,” Findekáno said.

“No, you.”

“You!”

“You!”

“Y—mmf!”

Maitimo kissed his adorable, silly husband until they were both giggling too much to keep their lips together. Findekáno’s white teeth gleamed bright against his dark and lovely skin, and he relented: “Alright, me first.”

Maitimo watched with utter contentment as Findekáno took a breath, gathering his thoughts. He loved the way Finno’s eyes shone when he had a new idea; he loved the way he crinkled his brows ever-so-slightly as he searched for the right words to express himself.

Ai, he loved him. Even now, years into their marriage, he was overcome with wonder and adoration at the simplest things, so grateful was he to be Findekáno’s husband.

“I was thinking,” Findekáno began, slow and serious and with just a hint of worry, “that we ought to talk about—about children.”

Maitimo’s heart skipped a beat, a wave of repressed longing washing over him so strongly he was sure Findekáno could feel it too. “Yes,” he croaked, blinking back sudden tears. “Ai, Finno—yes.”

“Are you agreeing to a discussion, or to being fathers?” Findekáno teased, and in response Maitimo only kissed him again.

“I’ve always wanted—” Maitimo could feel himself blushing, but that was hardly unusual when he was with Findekáno, who made him indescribably happy. “I was going to ask the same thing. But I wasn’t sure if, if you...”

“You would be the most amazing father,” Findekáno murmured. “I want—you’re such a wonderful brother, Russo, and any child of yours—of ours—would be so, so loved.”

Maitimo buried his face in Findekáno’s chest, soaking up his warmth and love. “You’ll be the best father in all of Aman,” he whispered. “No—in all of Arda. All of Eä!”

Findekáno kissed the top of his head. No, melda, for that honor shall be thine, he murmured, but did not protest further. With Russandol at his side, he could be anything he put his mind to.

“It’s only...” He hesitated. “Well...our hröar.”

Maitimo nodded, still not moving from Findekáno’s embrace. This was the only reason he had not broached the subject earlier. No matter their love for one another, they could not create a child’s hröa with their own hröar.

“I thought...” Findekáno sighed. “Well...Haruni Indis tells tales of the Journey, and before, when Quendi died and left children behind. Those children could not be raised by those who bore them, but they formed new bonds, and grew into happy adults. So I know it is possible to have a family like that, but...”

“But this is Aman,” Maitimo finished. “There is no death in such a manner...and there are no children in need of two lonely, would-be fathers.”

“Lonely?” Findekáno pouted. “I would hope not that, arimelda.”

Not with thee, Maitiom assured. Never with thee. He paused. “But even with our gaggle of cousins, I—I still want...”

I know, darling, Findekáno murmured. I know.

“If we could, somehow...” Maitimo trailed off. “You would wish for it?”

“With all my fëa,” Findekáno promised, as serious as the night of their bonding.

“And with all of mine,” Maitimo rasped, and made love to him like it was the first time, like somehow despite everything they could will a child into existence with only the power of their love.

“I was thinking...” Findekáno tapped his glass idly. At least, to anyone else watching, the movement would appear idle. To Maitimo, who knew his husband intimately, he saw it for the nervous tic it was.

“Mm?” he prompted.

“Your father,” Findekáno blurted out. “The greatest mind of all the Noldor—of all the Eldar. Could he help us?”

Maitimo blinked. Even after the very public reconciliation between Nolofinwë and Fëanáro (at his and Finno’s wedding, of all times), Findekáno was not overfond of his law-father, and certainly not prone to praising him. “Help with...what, exactly?”

“You know.” Findekáno grimaced, glancing around the café uncomfortably, as if worried he would be overheard despite the staff being the only other Eldar present. “Our...problem. With—children.”

Maitimo couldn’t help the snort that escaped him. “He may have seven sons, but I’ll remind you my mother did most of the work, there,” he said drily.

Findekáno huffed overdramatically. “Not like that. Only—well—he’s a genius. A mad genius, but that only gives him the audacity to try. Perhaps he could come up with a solution for us.”

“Perhaps,” Maitimo echoed, turning the idea over in his mind. Fëanáro’s last great project had been completely derailed by his eldest son’s eventful betrothal and marriage, and even though some years had passed since then, Maitimo didn’t think he’d returned to the concept of the Silmarils. He must be itching for something new.

“Well,” he said thoughtfully, “he does want grandchildren, and at this rate only Curvo seems to be interested in producing any, and he’s taking his sweet time courting Quildalótië...” His only other married brother, Makalaurë, had been with his wife for decades, and they still showed no sign of impending parenthood. Maitimo suspected this was more of a disinterest on Ezellë’s part than it was his brother’s, but Káno loved his wife too much to ask for anything she was unwilling to give.

“So you think he would help?” Findekáno asked, eyes wide with hope.

Maitimo smiled. “Of course,” he agreed. “Though I’m not certain we’ll be grateful for his help after he’s experimented on us for awhile...”

“But...creation is the domain of the Valar,” Nolofinwë said with a frown. “I’m not saying I don’t want grandchildren—of course I do—and I want you boys to be happy, but—”

“Creation? The domain of the Valar?” Fëanáro scoffed. “It is the Noldor who have surpassed even Aulë!”

“I don’t know if I’d go that far,” Maitimo muttered, but he knew now that his father had latched onto the idea, he would not let it go. At least, not until some other challenge caught his interest.

“Perhaps you could work with the Valar,” Nolofinwë suggested. “Yavanna created the olvar and the kelvar. Surely she could help with this, also?”

“Hmm.” Fëanáro sniffed. “Might as well call upon Ilúvatar himself!”

“Your House is favored of Aulë,” Findekáno pointed out, leaning forward. “Could he not convince his wife to hear us out?”

“Let me work on it first,” Fëanáro said. “If I can’t do it—” his tone made it clear he thought such a failure was ludicrous— “then, perhaps, I will go to the Valar.”

“It will be our child,” Maitimo reminded him. “You are not crafting an elfling out of gems, Atar. We just thought you may have insight on creation in general.”

“I know what I’m working with,” Fëanáro assured. His cheeks reddened a little, and he coughed politely. “Ah...speaking of which, I will need...genetic material with which to work...”

“Let’s see some plans first!” Findekáno exclaimed, not even Curufinwë Fëanáro protested at that.

Fëanáro showed up at their home in the middle of the night, his hair a mess, his eyes wild. Findekáno, much more of a night owl than his husband, was the one who answered the door. He blinked up at his law-father, stifling a yawn; he may not have been in bed yet, but he was quite ready to turn in.

“Fëanáro?” he asked. “What in Manwë’s name are you doing here at this hour?”

“I can’t do it,” he proclaimed, sounding prouder than he ought to at that admission. “It is beyond the capability of the Eldar to manipulate two hröar of similar build—but it is not beyond us to create a fëa.”

He beamed, appearing very pleased with himself. It took Findekáno, who was still rather disoriented, a few moments to grasp what his uncle was saying, and when he did—

“You’re talking about children?” he said with a frown. “Well...we knew that already. Of course parents create the fëa of their child.”

“But no part of that process is limited to only Eldar of compatible sexes,” Fëanáro insisted, as if Findekáno were a slow child who was missing the point. “So you and Nelyafinwë could have a child of your own fëar!”

“But we haven’t a hröa for such a child,” Findekáno pointed out, though his breast rose with sudden hope. Could they really...?

“Well—that is where you must ask for the aid of the Valar.” Fëanáro frowned. “Surely they can make an empty hröa for you. I have long studied the process of reembodiment, and while I—I have not had the privilege to witness it myself, it must surely be similar.”

At the implication of his mother, Findekáno felt a twinge of sympathy for Fëanáro. Not enough to regret his father’s—and thus his own—existence, but he had not considered his uncle’s desire for descendants as being tied to Míriel’s death. Now, though, it was obvious: he had lost a mother. He would do everything he could to be a parent (and grandparent) in his own way.

“Then we’ll go ask Yavanna.” Findekáno couldn’t hold back his yawn any longer, and didn’t restrain the sigh that went along with it. “Ai...but let’s do it in the morning.”

Fëanáro hovered on the doorstep for a moment, then boldly entered his son’s house. He did not visit often—usually it was Findekáno and Russandol who went to their fathers’ homes—but Findekáno was not so rude as to turn his husband’s father away, no matter the awkwardness that still lay between them.

“You know where the guest rooms are?” Findekáno inquired.

Fëanáro nodded. “Thank you, Finno.” He paused. “For so many things. For taking care of Nelyo, and...I know you were the one who suggested I could help.” He swallowed, averting his eyes in a rare moment of humility. “I am honored to be involved in any small way.”

“You’re tired,” Findekáno said with a lopsided grin. “I know you wouldn’t be so friendly if you weren’t exhausted.”

Fëanáro huffed. “Good night to you, too!”

“It’s my house!” Findekáno called after him, and he was still chuckling when he finally crawled into bed beside his beautiful, slumbering Russandol.

It was not easy to get a private audience with one of the Aratar—but being the High Prince of the Noldor had its benefits, and access to the Valar was one of them.

Aulë was happy to accommodate his star student’s request to meet with his wife, and so in only a matter of hours Findekáno, Russandol, and Fëanáro found themselves in Yavannesselë, the gardens of Yavanna Kementári herself.

Alas, the Queen of the Earth was not as helpful as they had hoped. When Fëanáro made his inquiry and all but invited to her to examine Findekáno and Maitimo’s hröar, she only blinked and slowly shook her head.

It is true that I made the kelvar, she said, stroking the fur of a bear curled up at her feet. But I did not make the Quendi. That was our Father. And over the dominion of souls, He has given Námo the greatest authority.

“But you are also Lady of the Harvest,” Fëanáro pointed out. “Fertility is your domain!”

And were your issue one of simple fertility, perhaps then I could aid you. As it is... She trailed off. I know the Lord of Mandos can be intimidating, but he loves children. I believe he would be sympathetic to your plight, Nelyafinwë and Findekáno, if you should ask him in the right way.

Findekáno bowed, taking that for the dismissal it was. He was relieved when Russandol tugged his still-protesting father away. This next part would be difficult enough without Fëanáro offending Yavanna.

“I think we should seek Mandos on our own,” he said once they had left Yavannesselë, looking Fëanáro in the eye. Both shorter néri, they were almost of a height, Fëanáro only a hair’s-breadth taller, and Findekáno refused to be cowed by his irascible law-father.

“You turn me away now?” Fëanáro demanded.

“Atar, you heard what Kementári said,” Russandol said soothingly. “We must ask carefully...and she indicated we should ask. Your name was not mentioned. I think it is wise for Finno and I to go alone; after all, your...prudence...regarding the Valar is well-known—”

Findekáno repressed a snort. “Prudence” not the word he would have used.

“—and surely Lord Námo would judge you more harshly than most. If Finno and I are to reach him, and he can aid us...”

Fëanáro huffed, still glaring at Findekáno. “But my plans—”

“—can be explained after he agrees to help,” Findekáno said firmly. “Indeed, why not spend some more time working on them while Russo and I are away? That way you can show Námo just how brilliant you are. We need his divine power, but it’s your ideas, after all.”

This seemed to mollify Fëanáro somewhat, though he still grumbled as he rode away back to his workshop. When he was gone, Maitimo breathed a sigh of relief.

“I love him,” he said wearily, “and I am grateful for his aid, but he’s a little...much.”

Findekáno stood on his tiptoes for a kiss. “Let’s rest before we seek Mandos,” he murmured, then grinned. “I know an excellent way to pass the time, eremelda...”

“Finno!” Russandol squeaked as Findekáno squeezed his rear suggestively, but he laughed and took Finno’s hand as they raced back home to their bedroom.

You want me to do...what, exactly?

“Make a child for us, my lord,” Russandol said, ducking his head a little before the majesty of Námo Mandos. “Or—help us in making one, at least. We cannot do so on our own, and my father thought—”

“Lady Yavanna suggested—” Findekáno cut in.

Námo sighed, the dark folds of his robes shifting. This thing you ask of me...it has never been done before.

“We know.” Findekáno was struck with an idea. “But we know, also, that we are not the only Eldar who wish for children and cannot make our own in the...conventional way.”

Hmmm, Námo pondered. I may be the Lord of Fëar, but I cannot make a child’s fëa for you. That is the gift of Ilúvatar to his Children: we Ainur are not capable of such a thing.

“My father believes that the creation of a fëa can be done by any two elves combining their wills in a concerted effort,” Russandol mused. “Only...it would be cruel to make a spirit and give it no body in which to dwell.”

“Is that not death?” Findekáno challenged. “A separation of hröa and fëa?”

At this, Námo drew up to his full height, his hood falling back slightly to reveal a strange, impassively smooth face. Yet within it shone two eyes, bright as stars, and it seemed to Findekáno that the Doomsman was almost excited.

I have great knowledge in crafting an elven hröa in the image of its former self, he said slowly. Perhaps I could aid you. He paused. And yet, would that not be unfair to the souls of children waiting in my Halls who are ready to Return, yet have no family waiting for them?

“There are children in Mandos?” Russandol whispered, silver eyes wide with horror.

Námo bowed his had gravely. Aye, Fëanárion. At times the Darkness consumes even the young, and not always alongside their families. There are children in my Halls whose parents yet live on the far shores, or who must linger longer in Mandos than the child needs, or who are...otherwise unavailable. The Moriquendi have traditions of adoption for when a child survives their parents, but when the sundering takes the child and leaves the parents, I have not known what to do when the child is ready to be Reborn.

“So they linger still?” Findekáno asked, his heart aching for the children lost and lonely in death.

They do. Námo’s unblinking eyes focused onto him. But now you come to me, asking for a child of your own, and you claim there are others in Aman who would love a child that was not theirs by blood.

“We do,” Russandol said. “My lord, ai—as much as we yearn for a babe of our own...if we could foster a new life for a child who has suffered so much...!”

Would you—? Russandol asked through their bond, and though Findekáno was unable to form the words, he sent back a flood of emotion, assuring him that Yes, yes, yes, he would.

Then perhaps... Námo smiled, something Findekáno had never thought to see. I will consult with my siblings and our spouses on this matter, he declared. If we come to an agreement, I shall call upon you, Princes of the Noldor, to become the first foster parents in Aman.

“Thank you, thank you,” Findekáno cried, and embraced his husband tightly, new hope blossoming between them.

“Finno,” Russo whispered. “Finno—we’re going to be fathers!”

Aranion Gil-galad glowed with excitement as the Lord Badhron guided him forth. A light shone before him, soft and golden, calling his little soul back to life. Memories flooded back to him, sensations long muted by the veil of death: running through fields with bare feet, wind and rain stinging his cheeks, the taste of honeysuckle sweet on his tongue, the wonder of the twinkling stars for which he was named.

With those recollections came the lingering pain of his death. The unfortunate ending of his young life had been swift, thanks to the Belain’s mercy; he had escaped the torment of the Enemy who captured him, only to fall into a trap set by his own mother. The spear hidden within killed both him and his attacker instantly, and he had felt only a brief burst of pain before his fae departed from his rhond and the misty spirits had arrived to usher him into the Halls of Awaiting.

Yet the closer he stepped toward the light—toward life—the foggier those old hurts became, until he could barely recall the sickening lurch in his stomach as he fell, the sharp agony of a spear to the neck. Instead his sorrows turned to his sundering form his family: he missed Adar and Naneth and his siblings. He wanted to assure them that he was okay, that he loved them still, that he did not blame them for his accident.

But Denethor and Faechith, Thalwest and Amardil: they yet lived across the Sea, mourning him in fair Ossiriand, and Gil-galad knew he could not return. The Dreamlord Ídhron promised to relay his message to them, and Gil trusted him: for had not his wife, gentle Eord, comforted him in his fear and hurt? Had not Badhron so carefully explained his fate amid his confusion and worry? Had not Gwairil shown him the lands of his birth, the lives of his family when he had been so sad and alone? Had not the Lady Nennir wept with him for the loss of his youth, and again for the joy of his new life ahead of him?

Gil-galad knew Adar and Naneth would want him to live again, and he was tired of waiting. He was glad Badhron had at last devised a plan for him and the other lost children of Mandos, a way for them all to Return as the grown-ups could.

The world awaiting him in the light would be unlike anything he had ever known. Ossiriand was a green land full of stars; the Halls were endless dark, empty space. But Gwairil had shown him tapestries of the land called Valinor, where life and love and light filled the air and the musical tongue of Kwenya leapt like laughter from every lip, and Gil yearned to be a part of it all, no matter how different it would be from his first home.

Badhron had offered him a choice: he could Return to a small forest village where other Morikwendi dwelt, to be raised by a community of strangers from various tribes under the stars...or he could enter the family of a young Noldorin couple of the royal line, and make them fathers as they had always dreamed.

For Gil, the decision was an easy one. His new fathers could never replace his adar Denethor. But from the tapestries and lessons in Kwenya taught by Olórin, Nennir’s soft-smiling servant, Gil-galad saw home in Maitimo and Findekáno, and his lonely soul yearned for their embrace.

And he was so close now—only another few steps into the Light—

Are you ready, Aranion? asked Badhron, halting him just before he leapt back into life, into the little hröa prepared for him.

Gil-galad beamed up at him. In his Halls, the Balan was rather spooky, cloaked only in darkness, his hands—the only part of his fân visible beneath his inky robes—skeletal and dry. But now, with the light of the living world shining upon him, his form was solid, more fair. He was stilled draped in black, but it was silk woven by Gwairil rather than the very night itself; he wore soft purple skin, and had a face with which to smile. His eyes, though, were the same: pinprick stars shining a pure, blinding white.

Gil-galad reached out, taking Badhron’s hand. He was still a very little elfling, but he knew what he wanted. “Yes,” he said firmly. “I’m ready.”

Badhron smiled, squeezing his hand fondly. Then let your life begin anew, he said, and led Gil into the light of Aman.

Out of the shadows of Lórien, a light appeared. First Námo stepped through, for once his piercing gaze turned away, looking behind rather than afore—and then the child stumbled out after him, new flesh forming around a spirit so bright that not even the yet-unfinished Silmarils compared.

Maitimo trembled, clinging to Findekáno as he watched their child take his first hesitant steps in this new life. His own wonder and elation and anticipation echoed back to him through his husband, and above all, his love for this precious soul now entrusted to their care.

Maitimo had adored him since before he even knew his name. He cherished his son, dreamed of him throughout the months he and Findekáno had waited for Námo to finish his preparations, and now with the little lad only an arm’s-reach away, he was desperate to embrace him, to reach out with his fëa and cradle him close, to shower him with all the love and affection he deserved.

But they couldn’t go too fast. This was a big adjustment for everyone—and for no one more than the child himself.

Aranion Gil-galad was his name, in the tongue of the Laiquendi. In the past months, Maitimo had reached out to the reborn Avari in an earnest desire to learn their tongue so that he might communicate with his future son, and while few of the Moriquendi trusted him enough to teach him, he hoped he had gathered enough knowledge to at least put Aranion at ease. He knew, also, that the Maiar in Mandos had taught the child Quenya, but Maitimo thought the familiarity of a mother-tongue would be more welcoming for his child.

His child. His son. Findekáno’s son, with him—Maitimo teared up every time he thought of how very blessed they were, to have each other. To have him.

Aranion was a princely name, fit for a scion of kings. It was the same in both their tongues, Maitimo had learned; in this, the language of Cuiviénen had not much diverged. And Gil-galad: what a beautiful sound! No such name could be found in Quenya, for the g consonant existed only in the form of ng, as in Findekáno’s father’s preferred pronunciation of Ñolofinwë. The name tasted like starlight on Maitimo’s tongue, and now to see him at long last, he knew Gil-galad for the radiant star he was.

Findekáno and Maitimo would, of course, give him names of their own. He was already considering a few, and could not fathom how to choose between them. But no matter their gifts to him, words as precious as jewels, or moreso, he would always be Aranion Gil-galad. As dearly as they wished to share their Noldorin traditions with their son, he would always be of the Laiquendi, and neither Maitimo nor Findekáno would dream of taking his first heritage from him.

Aranion clutched Námo’s hand as he gasped in his first new breath, his eyes closed against the Light. Ai, of course—he had known only the stars in Endórë and the darkness of the Halls, and had never seen the Two Trees. Maitimo squeezed his husband’s hand tighter, sharing with him a vision of taking Aranion—their son!—to Ezellohar for the first time, seeing the glow of the Trees sink into his fëa and hröa, lighting him from within and marking him always as a Calaquendë.

Unless—sudden anxiety seized him—unless he didn’t want to. What if Aranion had no desire to be a Calaquendë; what if he wished for his birth parents, and refused their offer of family; what if—

And then Aranion’s eyes blinked open, a deep and glorious brown, and he beamed, his round cheeks flushed red.

“At—Atari?” he squeaked in clumsy Quenya. “Atari!”

Struck down by the elation in that perfect little voice, Maitimo let out a soft keen and fell to his knees. Aranion waited no longer to run forward, throwing himself into Maitimo’s arms, and he sobbed for joy. His fëa, yet twined with Findekáno’s, reached out to his son (his son!) and Aranion reached back, his love and hope brighter than the light of any star, or even any hallowed Tree.

“Yonya,” Findekáno whispered, kneeling to embrace them both in turn, and Maitimo knew that at long last, their happiness was complete, and would ever be so long as Aranion Gil-galad remained in their hearts.

“Carry meeee,” Gil-galad whined, and how could Findekáno refuse him? This was his son, his child, the bright star in his heart. He’d thought he had known love when he married Russandol, but now that they had a child together, he loved brighter and better with every breath.

Findekáno scooped Gil up into his arms, kissing his brown curls affectionately. After a fierce battle with the hairbrush and Gil’s fit of laughter when his fathers had balked at his suggestion of trimming his hair, Russandol had very gravely cut Gil’s locks to just above his ears. While it was astonishing to see their son so nonchalant about his hair (his hair!), Findekáno did have to admit that this was much easier to care for, and made mornings much more cheerful.

(“When I’m big, my hair’ll be long like Naneth’s,” Gil had explained, and then his eyes had gone sad, and Findekáno had soothed him as best as he knew how, trying to ignore the pang of guilt in his heart. He and Russo loved their new son, but if there was one thing neither of them could be, it was a mother.)

Gil’s current pouty mood was not a result of tangled hair, but the end of a particularly long and stressful day of meeting new people. Findekáno and Russandol were introducing their son to their families slowly, one household at a time, but even the smallest gatherings of Finwëans were doomed to be chaotic. At least Anairë’s parents had offered a quieter environment, but today Gil-galad had met none other than Curufinwë Fëanáro himself, and Findekáno was still buzzing with nerves even as they walked the path back home.

“So,” Russandol asked nervously, “how do you like Haru Fëanáro?”

Gil-galad yanwed, rubbing his eyes tiredly. “Noisy,” he said at last, and Findekáno snorted out a quiet laugh.

“Aye, he is that,” Russandol admitted. “But he is very glad to have you as a grandson. Do you know that?”

“He talks so much,” Gil complained. “An’ he kept trying to speak Silvan, but he doesn’t know how!”

“He’s a linguist,” Findekáno sighed. Between the two of them, Maitimo was much more adept at the Silvan language, but even Findekáno had a better mastery of their son’s mother-tongue than Fëanáro. “But so far he’s only learned your tongue from books, not from real people.”

“It’s quite rare to be better at something than Haru,” Russandol said, his lips quirking up into a smile. “You should be proud to be a master while he is yet an apprentice!”

Gil giggled, turning to smile at Russandol. “You wan’ me to teach him?”

“If you would like to,” Russandol said. “We won’t make you.”

Gil-galad considered. “Hmm,” he said. “Might be fun. If he can listen and not jus’ talk!”

Findekáno laughed again, freer this time. Fëanáro was peculiar in the way he showed affection, it was true, but in learning from a child he would truly prove his fondness for his new grandson.

“Nerdanel is very tall,” Gil said, pronouncing the Quenya name carefully. For all Findekáno and Russandol tried to speak Silvan with him as much as possible, both so they would learn and he would not forget, Gil-galad was quite eager to master Quenya as well.

“She is,” Findekáno agreed. “That’s where your atya gets his height from.”

Gil made an exaggerated show of craning his neck up to see Russo’s face. “Atya’s taller than anyone!” he exclaimed.

“Well, I am also tall because of Haru Finwë,” Russandol explained, gently tweaking Gil’s nose. “You haven’t met him yet, but he almost matches me in height.”

“Finwë is...both your haru’s?” Gil scrunched up his face, trying to find the right words. “I mean, he’s Haru Fëanor’s atar, but also Haru Nolo’s atar?” He frowned up at Findekáno uncertainly. “Haru Nolo is tall, too. But you’re not!”

“Well, I take after my ammë,” Findekáno explained. “And yes, yonya, Finwë is grandfather to us both.”

“I know it’s confusing,” Russandol said, glancing ruefully his cousin-husband. “But my Haruni was Míriel, and Atto’s Haruni is Indis.”

“Míriel died,” Gil-galad remembered. “But she didn’t come back like me?”

Findekáno swallowed. “She did not,” he said softly.

Gil reached out to pat Russandol’s arm, and Findekáno passed their son over to his husband. “She’ll come back,” Gil reassured with the confidence of a child. “Lord Badhron is jus’ trying to figure out what to do with her, like he did with me.”

Russandol smiled, but Findekáno could tell he was blinking back tears. He reached along their bond to comfort him, and found that Russo was not sad, but hopeful. Ai, what light and joy this child brought to them!

“You know Lord Badhron better than us,” Russandol said softly, kissing Gil-galad’s forehead. “If you say so, I must believe you.”

“Are you ready for your big day?” Maitimo asked, and in response Gil-galad tumbled out of bed and ran up to hug his legs.

“Yes, yes!” he squeaked. “I’m gonna be a Kala-kwenda!”

He beamed with honest excitement, and Maitimo’s heart swelled with joy. Gil’s eyes were wide, and while they had taken on a pale gleam since his rebirth, the Light of Aman slowly suffusing into his hröa, he did not yet possess the full, beautiful shine that marked him a Calaquendë—or, in the Silvan tongue, Kala-kwenda. 

But that would change today, for at the next Mingling, Aranion Gil-galad would stand before the Two Trees of Valinórë to receive their Light and the official blessing and welcome into the Houses of Finwë and Ingwë—and, most importantly of all in Maitimo’s opinion, his fathers would give unto him names of their own choosing.

His kilmessë, of course, would be his to decide. Indeed, Maitimo thought it quite likely that he would continue to go by “Gil,” the nickname he preferred over Aranion. It was certainly an unusual name in Valinórë, and not the easiest for Quenya speakers to wrap their tongues around (Anairë still sometimes called him “Ñill,” which was, Maitimo supposed, close enough), but if it was the name of his fëa no one would dare challenge the sanctity of a kilmessë, no matter the language.

“Let’s get you dressed for the day,” Maitimo said, closing the windows as Gil-galad shimmied out of his nightclothes. Upon first arriving at their house, Gil had been amazed: the Laikwendi lived in trees, not walled structures, and the confinement had even frightened him at first. Findekáno’s promise of renovating his room to have an adjacent balcony and Maitimo’s temporary compromise of keeping the windows wide open in the meantime seemed to comfort him. Maitimo only closed the windows in situations like this, when a naked elfling pranced about the room with no regard for modesty.

“Good morning, my little star,” Findekáno sang as he entered the room. “Oh, goodness! Come here, Gil, I’ve got your special robe.”

Maitimo stepped back to let his husband dress their son. “You look very handsome, Gil,” he said with a smile, watching as Gil-galad donned the deep purple robe embroidered with gold and silver stars. He wore the colors of his fathers’ union, the mingling of Fëanárian red and Nolofinwëan blue, trimmed with the symbols of royalty. Aranion he was, even if that was not to be his kilmessë.

“Atya, what’s for breakfast?” Gil asked as Findekáno finished arranging his robe and started on braiding his hair.

“Hmm...how about a little elfling?” Maitimo teased, swooping close to pretend to gobble Gil up, in actuality just peppering him in kisses.

“Russo!” Findekáno exclaimed, exasperated. “Let me fix his hair!”

“I’ll make eggs and sausage, your favorite, if you’re very good and let Atto do your hair,” Maitimo offered.

Gil nodded eagerly, then winced as Findekáno tugged lightly on his half-finished braid. “Stay still,” he scolded, and Gil rolled his eyes.

“Today is your day, ion,” Maitimo said. “I’ll make your favorite dinner, too. And we have gifts for you, jewels and toys and things.”

“And names!” Findekáno added. “Those come first, at the ceremony.”

“But you will still have your other names,” Maitimo was quick to add. “You are our son now, but—”

“I’ll always be Aranion Gil-galad, Denethorion and Faechithion,” Gil finished impatiently. “Yes, Atya, I know!”

“I just want you to always remember where you came from,” Maitimo said softly in Silvan.

“I know,” Gil said simply, choosing to reply in Quenya. “I miss Ada and Naneth, ’n’ maybe someday when I’m big I’ll go back t’ Ossiriand and see them again and they’ll be so proud of me—but right now I’m here, and I’m yours!” He smiled big. “And you’re mine!”

Maitimo blinked away tears, overwhelmed by his son’s confidence and affection. “We’re yours,” he agreed softly. “Always, Gil. We’ll always be your fathers.”

They entourage stopped at the foot of the last hill before the Mound of Ezellohar came into view. Gil-galad squinted in his saddle, anxious to see the Trees in their full glory, but he was a good boy and didn’t dare run off. There was a ceremony still to come, he knew, and while Amanyar formality was very different from the rituals the Laikwendi practiced in Ossiriand, he was big enough to know that the grown-ups though it was important, no matter what.

There were so many people here! His fathers had warned him that everyone would want to attend, but faced with the sprawling enormity of the House of Finwë, not to mention Anairë’s family and King Ingwë and a few representatives from his House, Gil felt very small indeed. Both sets of grandparents were in attendance, of course, and there were also all eight of his uncles (plus his one aunt), Harutar Finwë and Harunamil Indis and his great-grandparents from Nerdanel and Anairë also, and even Cousin Ingoldo all the way from Alqualondë!

And though he was not completely certain—he couldn’t see them—Gil thought he could sense other guests in attendance: Lords Badhron and Ídhron, and the Ladies Nennir, Gwairil, and Eord, watching him from another plane of existence.

It was a very big day, and not just for him. Gil knew how very special he was, and not just because of how much Atto and Atya adored him. He was the very first child to be reborn and adopted into a family of Amanyar, and everyone—especially the Fëanturi—wanted to see how he would turn out.

He remembered the other children in the Halls, the ones like him who had no one to guide them, no one to welcome them back to life. He knew their hopes at rebirth hinged on him.

Aranion had always been a prince, had always had people counting on him from the moment of his first breath. He had failed before, when he died—but he wouldn’t fail again. Not this time.

The assembled elves dismounted from their horses, gathering around Harutar Finwë, who cleared his throat and began to preside over the ceremony. Gil-galad only half-listened to him; Atya and Atto had explained everything earlier, and it wasn’t very interesting.

Gil knew that usually, children were brought to see the Trees as babies, where they would be blessed and named and shown the Light. For him, the tradition had to be altered.

“I, too, once stood where you stand, my son,” Finwë said with a gentle smile, “with only my two friends beside me. And though we knew not what would come, our souls were glad, and we became new Quendi when we stepped into the Light.”

Gil-galad smiled up at him. It was good to remember that he wasn’t all that strange, that there were others who could remember their first sight of the Trees: he was joining the very special group of Kwendi who had chosen this, rather than having been raised within it.

Finwë spoke a little longer, and then he stepped back. Now came the part of the ceremony that Gil knew Atya was most excited for. Like Haru Fëanáro, Maitimo was a linguist, and had carefully crafted new names for him the way others crafted precious gems. (Atto had chosen names for him, also, but it was Atya who perfected them.)

“My son,” Atya Maitimo began, his eyes already misty with tears. “You are a blessing and a gift to us, your fathers. For many years we hoped and yearned for a child, and knew not how we could bring such a life into our lives. When my father Fëanáro helped us search for a way, and the Masters of Spirits looked kindly upon our request, we were so glad.”

“But that gladness was nothing compared to our joy when we finally met you, and held you in our arms,” Atto Findekáno continued. “We love you, yonya, and there are no words in any tongue, not Quenya or Valarin or Silvan, to express how much. Still, we shall do what we can, and now we give unto you new names of our own creation, to honor you and show every soul in Aman how very special you are.”

“In your first life, you were named Aranion Gil-galad,” Atya said. “These names will remain with you always, but our first gift to you is a translation, from your Silvan tongue to the Quenya of our home. Aranion remains the same, though it now marks you as the son of many kings, rather than just one: before, you were ion o Aran, the son of King Denethor of the Laikwendi; now you are yondo o Arani, scion of Kings Denethor of the Nandor, Finwë of the Noldor, and Ingwë of the Vanyar.”

“Your mother, Faechith, named you for the stars,” Atto said, smiling. “In Endórë you knew no other light than Varda’s creations, and it is a mark of how much your mother loved you that she gave to you their names. Gil-galad is a beautiful essë, and rendered into Quenya, it is Ñillenalto, shining radiance.”

“We know you prefer the nickname ‘Gil,’” Atya said. “And if you choose that as your kilmessë, we will be glad, for it is a beautiful name. But now we offer you other names, some formal, some personal, for you to choose and use as you see fit.”

He took a breath, then continued, “I am called Nelyafinwë, the third of Finwë’s line. As you are of the fourth generation, and my dear father insists on passing down this tradition, I name you now Cantafinwë, the fourth of Finwë’s line, and his heir after my father and myself.”

Cantafinwë. Gil mouthed the name to himself, not sure if he liked it. He saw Atya wink at him, and he winked back. There would be other, better names to come.

“I also wished to name you in honor of our fathers,” Atto added. “But after a different fashion. Yonya, I name you now Artanáro, the high flame, for you are royal, noble, and glorious—and you are the grandson of Ñolofinwë Arakáno and Curufinwë Fëanáro, and with their gifts mingled in you, all the Ñoldor will be bettered.”

Gil knew his grandfathers quarreled with one another, and that his fathers’ journey to marriage had not been an easy one because of that. But now Ñolofinwë and Fëanáro stood side by side, smiling, with only joy and felicity between them.

Artanáro was a good name, he decided. It was a symbol of peace and unity, and he liked the image of himself as a “high flame,” whatever that meant.

“I am not gifted with foresight,” Atya admitted. “But since you came to us, yonya, I have had a dream, in which you are tall and beautiful and powerful. You are the scion not only of kings, but of smiths and creators, and in my dream I saw you holding a hammer in one hand and a sword in the other. Perhaps it is only a dream: but perhaps it is a premonition that you shall share the skill of Curufinwë and the bravery of Findekáno, that you shall lead us to new horizons and bring light and peace to all of Arda.”

Gil shivered at his father’s words, uncertain what to make of them. Atya had not mentioned this dream before, and it sounded both exciting and a little frightening. Swords meant danger, and danger meant death—but he would not die again, he knew it deep in his bones. Atya must be right, and if he was, that meant Gil would be able to return to Ossiriand someday, and reunite with his first family. He wanted that very much, so long as he could bring his new family with him also.

“I name you now Findequárë,” Atya declared. “To honor your budding skills, and your descent from Finwë and Findekáno both; and to mark your greatness to come, your mighty fist, for you shall be the best of us all, my little one.”

“And last of all, we name you ours,” Atto said, kneeling to embrace Gil-galad. Atya did the same, and then lifted him up as Atto continued, “You are our son: Nelyafinwion, Findekánion. May you always know our love!”

The assembled crowd cheered, and Gil laughed joyfully. His new names were beautiful and exciting, even if he did still prefer Gil-galad, and he knew how much they meant to his fathers. He would treasure them for the gifts they were.

“And now,” Harutar Ingwë boomed, “we ascend the Last Hill to gaze upon Laurelin and Telperion in all their majesty, and bless our newest son with the Light of Aman!”

Maitimo and Findekáno lifted Gil back up onto his pony and led him forward up the hill. Gil-galad trembled with excitement: for so long he had heard tales of the Trees, their beauty and light, and even though the Laikwendi had no interest in making the journey west to see them, they too told stories of the Three Kings who returned to Koivie-néni with shining eyes and songs of Light. Ing and Fin and El, they were named, and Denethor’s father Dan had known them—and now Gil knew them, too, and counted them as his forefathers.

It was mischance and ill-fortune that had led to Gil-galad’s death, but here he was, granted a second life. He would make it a glorious one, and the Light of the Trees would help him make it so. He wished only that his first family could be here, his parents Denethor and Faechith and his siblings Thalwest and Amardil, but he took comfort in his atya’s dream that he, Findequárë, would return to Baladórin and see them again.

At long last they crested the hill—and Aranion Ñillenalto Cantafinwë Artanáro Findequárë Nelyafinwion and Findekánion, known also as Aranion Gil-galad Denethorion Faechithion, gasped in awe and delight as the pure, holy Light of the Two Trees mingled together, silver and gold sinking into his fëa and hröa, lighting him up from the inside out.

For a long, dazzling moment, he simply stared at Laurelin and Telperion in all their glory, soaking up their rays and feeling his spirit grow stronger, lighter...and then he turned away from the radiant gold and shining silver, toward two teary-eyed figures in red and blue.

“Atya,” he said, taking the hand of Nelyafinwë Maitimo Russandol Nerdanelion Fëanárion. “Atto.” He reached for the hand of Findekáno Astaldo Ñolofinwion Anairion. Both his fathers knelt to his level, beaming, tears of love and joy streaming down their cheeks.

“Thank you,” he said, remembering his manners. “I love you.”

And then Finno and Russo, his Atto and Atya, tugged Gil into a fierce embrace, warm and strong and perfect. Around them the Houses of Finwë and Ingwë clapped and cheered, rejoicing in the life and light of their little star, the newest addition to their number...

...and invisible to all but themselves, the Fëanturi smiled, for now they had hope—no, something better. They had a plan and a proof for the lost children of Endórë, and just as Gil-galad had found a loving home in Aman, so soon would all the little souls in the Halls of Mandos, and part of the Marring of Arda would be healed for those who, more than any other, deserved a second chance.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Notes and translations:
For the Silvan language, specifically the Laikwendi dialect spoken by Denethor and his family, I am using a mix of the few canonical Nandorin words we have, proto-Eldarin and Quenya-adjacent words developed from the original tongue spoken at Cuiviénen, and Sindarin words adopted once they came into contact with the Eglaith of Beleriand.

ETA some months later: Upon reflection, I'm pretty sure the thing I said about Quenya not really having a "g" sound isn't actually true, but I'm too lazy to fix that right now. :p

Badhron = canonical Sindarin name for Mandos
Ídhron = headcanoned Sindarin name for Irmo; I liked its symmetry with Badhron, his brother
Nennir = early Gnomish name for Nienna, here reincorporated as her Silvan name
Gwairil = Gnomish name for Vairë, here reincorporated as her Silvan name
Eord = canonical Nandorin (!!) name for Estë

Faechith = OC, Denethor’s wife; name means “spirit of mist”
Thalwest = OC, Denethor’s daughter (and Gil’s older sister); name means “steady oath”; she appears in this fic I wrote, which takes place in a more canon-compliant ’verse
Amardil = OC, Denethor’s child (and Gil’s older sibling); name means “friend of the earth”

Balan, Belain (S.) = Vala, Valar (Q.)
fae (S.) = fëa (Q.) = soul/spirit
rhond (S.) = hröa (Q.) = body
fân (S.) = fána (Q.) = body (of an Ainu)

Yavannesselë = my headcanoned name for the Pastures/Gardens of Yavanna
Atari = “fathers” (Q.); plural of Atar
Haru, Haruni = Grandfather, Grandmother
Harutar, Harunamil = Great-grandfather, Great-grandmother (my translation)
kilmessë (Q.) = chosen name
essë (Q.) = name

Koivie-néni = early Quenya for Cuiviénen, here reincorporated as its Silvan name
Dan = canonical Nandorin name for Lenwë
Baladórin = my (rather clumsy) Nandorin translation for Beleriand (S.)

Sentence construction is a bitch, and I am far from an expert. These translations are my best effort, but may be incorrect.
ion o Aran (S.) = son of (the) King
yondo o Arani (Q.) = son of Kings

 

The Many Names of Gil-galad
Aranion (S.) = name meaning “son of (the) King”; compare canon Ereinion, “son/scion of Kings”
Aranion (Q.) = name meaning both “son of (the) King” (Aran+ion) and “son/scion of Kings” (Arani+ion)
Ñillenalto (Q.) = my Quenya translation of the name Gil-galad
Cantafinwë (Q.) = fourth Finwë; based on my headcanon that Fëanor insisted Maedhros’ eldest son carry on the number-name tradition
Artanáro (Q.) = canonical name for Gil-galad meaning “high/noble flame” (S. equivalent is Rodnor); here headcanoned as a nod to both his grandfathers Fëanáro and Arakáno, with ara altered to the form arta for aesthetic purposes
Findequárë (Q.) = my Quenya translation of the name Finbor (alt. Findobar), an early name for a son of Fingon (and the brother of Erien, who may or may not show up later in this verse!); I translate its meaning as “hair-fist,” though I also make a nod here to fin’s alternate meaning of phin “skill”; for quárë (alt. quar), see also Tyelperinquar (aka Celebrimbor), another detail to look out for in the future :)

 

If you’re disappointed the Mad Science Baby plotline didn’t pan out in this fic...well, have patience. Erien is going to happen somehow ;)

 

Thanks for reading, and please comment if you enjoyed!
You can find me on tumblr @arofili.