TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
The Songs of Birds	sillylovesxngs	2022-05-21	2022-05-21	1,544	1/2	0	19	1	149

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Mature	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien, TOLKIEN J. R. R. - Works & Related Fandoms

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Elmo & Elu Thingol | Elwë Singollo, Elu Thingol | Elwë Singollo/Melian	Elu Thingol | Elwë Singollo, Melian (Tolkien)Elmo (Tolkien)	Middle Earth, Years of the Trees, Forests, The Teleri - Freeform, Talking Trees, Spells & Enchantments, Mind Control, Abusive Relationships, Brothers, Angst, Confusion, The Ainur - Freeform, Quenya Names, Nature, Conversations, Dialogue, Canon Era, Canon Related, Platonic Relationships, Sibling Love, Protective Siblings, Creepy, Supernatural Elements, Eldritch Maiar, Panic, Mental Coercion, Hypnotism, Surreal, Memory Loss, Reunions, Two Shot, Loss of Control, Fear, Loss of Innocence, Power Imbalance, Dark Fairy Tale Elements, Tags May Change, Emotional Hurt/Comfort, Family Drama, Missing Scene, Beleriand, Nan Elmoth

SUMMARY
“There was a deadly stillness in the forest, in which nothing moved except for him.”
*

On his return from visiting with the Tatyarin host, Elwë encounters a strange stretch of wood. A melodious voice, stretched like golden honey, calls for him.

It is the place, deep and secluded, where Elmo finds him— in a glade of decades past.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Elwë.


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
“The glade he was in remained shrouded in darkness, and Elwë tightened his cloak. Had it not simply been the tree shielding him from starlight?”
*

Elwë chances upon a kindly tree in the forest, among more sinister things.


CHAPTER 1
*

Fallen leaves whispered gently as his feet stepped carefully through them, perhaps speaking to each other. Visiting with Finwë had proved helpful in agreeing upon the most efficient route— though, in truth, that had not quite been the purpose. 

Elwë smiled softly to himself. Finwë was as dear to him as his own brothers, and Elwë missed him terribly when they were parted. They had, perhaps, giggled at inconsequential things as was only to be expected of young néri, and perhaps overindulged in syrup— copious amounts of the only sweet thing  they had left.

Perhaps, they had stayed up well through their sleeping hours, and, perhaps, they had traded stories over the fire. Perhaps.

An off step sent Elwë jolting in his skin, flailing about with his arms ridiculously for a moment, before landing flat on his rear. He shook his head, making himself all the dizzier. 

Ai, this had been a particularly calm patch of forest up until now. 

Elwë felt around him in sudden darkness that came with, he supposed, having fallen into the shade of a towering arbor. His fingers eventually caught upon an old, gnarled root among the soil.

“Hello, you,” he whispered fondly. 

It had been an old tree that had tripped him up, thankfully, and he knew that he ought to be on his way soon enough. Elwë was fond of trees, though. It seemed to reach out to him gently, in spirit, some message hidden under the surface. Its imitation of a fëa sparkled with curiosity.

“Have you truly never encountered a Quendë in your long life, meldonya?” The tree gave a sort of playful swipe, and Elwë mocked understanding. “I see— so you are, then, not as old and wise as I suspected?” It became indignant, bringing Elwë to laughter.

“Mercy!” Mirthful tears gathered in his eyes, and he flicked them away. “I am sorry, my friend, but it is fun to tease you.” The old root drew back and seemed to shake with its disappointment. “Do you turn up your nose at me?” Elwë had to bite back another laugh when the wood actually curled in admonishment.

“Do forgive me.” He smiled, placing a hand over his heart. “It was not my intention to offend,” he said, then giggled, against his best efforts. 

The tree rewarded him with a soft flick for chivalry, though subsided from any further efforts. Silly elf, it seemed to communicate, its first words to him. Elwë refrained from making any further distasteful comments. What are you doing so far into the forest?

“Visiting with a dear friend of mine.” As he spoke, he patted the root softly as if a small animal. “My chosen brother.” There was a fond lilt to his voice. The root relaxed at the touch, considering his answer.

But, all alone? Never have I known Quendi to travel alone. 

Elwë thought the tree’s speech patterns were ridiculously endearing, with the added context that it acted like a tame animal.

“No, indeed.” He sighed. “Let us not dwell on it. I am afraid I must leave you soon, meldonya, though you are a fine companion. My people are journeying to a safer land.” The tree sighed, and Elwë cradled the gnarled wood gently.

Well, it said, leaning into the touch, Needs must. I bid you farewell— and fare well, mind you. If you ever should find yourself here again, trust that you will have an ally in me.

“You are kind, elf-friend.” Elwë stood, dusted off his clothes and bowed. “May a star always shine to light your path.

And yours. 

 

Walking away, Elwë took care to tread lightly this time. The glade he was in remained shrouded in darkness, and Elwë tightened his cloak. The shadows and atmosphere of the wood encroached on him. Had it not simply been the tree shielding him from starlight? He went on, a bit quicker for the count.

At last, he could see Tintallë’s creations again, but they were as smears against the abyss-like sky. He went on a lot faster.

The quickened pace had him panting lightly. Elwë knew, though, that he would not stop. 

What he was even fleeing, one could wonder. He knew not himself, only that something sinister was penetrating his consciousness. A thickness was in his throat and in a moment, he was taking off at a dead run.

His heart pounded. The leaves whispered silently, as if conversing with one another. There was a deadly stillness in the forest, in which nothing moved except for him. He inhaled sharply, tearing through the underbrush. 

There had to be a reason, but what?

The panicked dread of the flight gave way to worse things.

Something was wrong, a keen sense of awareness told him. His feet lost their purchase, and he was flying through the air again. 

Something screeched. 

Some great thing lumbered after him all— too quickly, too quickly.

He could almost feel —

 

 

Elwë froze. It was like being suspended in mid-air, over the gaping abyss. It was like watching oneself there, being unable to control, unable to move. He saw the abyss and was aware of it. All that was was acceptance. 

His breathing slowed as if in a trance, and he waited for he knew not what. The stars shone in his eyes. His lungs were heavy in his chest, and he…

That was when he heard her. It was the sound of one thousand thrushes singing as a choir and it was the sound of one nightingale all in the same. Freed, intoxicated, he knew he was safely kept from the things chasing him before. 

The breeze hushed him, urged him ever onward in her mother’s cradling embrace, and helpless against her power he followed. An unsettling longing seized in his chest, some unnamed emotion that was perhaps— n—

Perhaps love.

The whispering wind carried him through glades, through soft underbrush, lush eaves of trees, and suddenly the wood was much brighter than it had been minutes previously. For a moment, he thought himself to feel the sweet spiritual embrace of the ancient tree spirit— protective, wise, and warning, but surely it was an echo of times past. A sweet memory that was beyond reach, never to be returned to. 

A sudden, harsh cold swept into his face, sending him into a coughing fit. Elwë brushed the hair out of his eyes and what in the world, where but soon enough his mood settled again. His heart beat once more with the calm knowledge of an existence. This existence.

She was closer now.

Elwë wandered the path of a semicircle, hesitantly with careful movements of his feet only to see— to see a maiden dancing in the wood, singing with the voice of a thousand thrushes, the voice of an elegant nightingale.

With laughter made of tinkling bells she seemed to say, “Come! Come and join me!” and in a moment he was sure of her name: Gwendeling. Himself, helpless to resist. 

His feet brought him to her and they were entwined. It was a simple dance, two partners circling palm-to-palm. She smiled at him, her round cheeks appled. Elwë could do naught but smile back.

She giggled, and it was a cold off-putting sound. He must have frowned— for she reacted accordingly, speaking words that he could at first not understand.

“Do not look so cross! Wipe that silly thing off your face!” She cradled his cheeks and something curdled in his gut. “You need not be called Tinwelint. Indeed not, for I have not made it so yet! Perhaps you should like Elu better?”

He shook his head.

“Good, that is good my lord!” He disliked the tone of her voice now and wanted to go home. “Look at me,” she commanded, but he h— loved her.

Loved her all the better for it.

“Shall we, my lord?” He gestured something with his head. Something.

There were no more thoughts when she took him by the arm and marched him away. It was all he knew, her hands on his face, her hands in his, the dark embers of her eyes… it was all he had ever known.

Perhaps a spring wedding, said she, or was it the forest. Or an autumnal one.

The words echoed. Her eyes were tree-light. It was all he heard.

What do you think dearest?

His face hurt, and Elwë was stuck looking into her eyes, held fast. He would have pried her cold, dead fingers off of his cheeks if possessed the wherewithal, but Elwë found. 

Elwë found he had lost all control.

“Hush, you. Look at me.  It will all be over soon.”

She was as cold as a statue, and he? He was alive, wasn’t he?  Elwë turned his cheek away and then her eyes were there. They had followed him. 

His thoughts filled to the brim with dear Finwë, Olwë, Elmo, and little Nennin, his heart in his throat but her hands—

Would she ruin even this? he wondered as the memories overtook him, before comprehending no more. Lost to the abyss and crystallized in time.

*


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
This was, interesting… I’ll be honest, the talking tree ran away with me.

Leave a comment, if you’d like! The second chapter will be up next Saturday.