TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Solatium miserorum	pomegranatecountry	2023-06-21	2023-06-21	2,896	1/1	0	38	4	578

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Mature	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Fingon | Findekáno/Maedhros | Maitimo	Fingon | Findekáno, Maedhros | Maitimo, Fingolfin | Ñolofinwë	Self-Indulgent, Bathing/Washing, Caretaking, Hair Washings, light hair kink, Mild Sexual Content, Injury Recovery, Implied Sexual Content, Implied/Referenced Pregnancy, Poor Maedhros, Quenya Names, Not Beta Read

SUMMARY
“I wonder why your king demands your presence in his room. You are not a trained nurse, I do not know what kind of care you must provide for him that no one else can do.”

Or, possible Gil-galad origin story

Title from Litany of Our Lady of Sorrows

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Solatium miserorum


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
Honestly I have no idea if this counts as explicit but I put it as mature for now, I might change it later based on feedback. No actual sexual activity is described and it's not even explicitly referred to, but it is heavily implied. Also there's a quick moment of Maedhros taking a piss but it's one sentence and not really relevant.


CHAPTER 1
Sometimes Maitimo woke before dawn, and in the darkness of his room he thought the past few centuries had been a dream. For a moment he thought himself still in Formenos, but the room was all wrong. He blinked, and lifted his arms to tug off the covers, and suddenly he remembered.

He did not remember crying out, but he assumed he must have, for in an instant Findekáno was by his side, softly petting his hair and mumbling calming nonsense. Findekáno’s fingers slipping through his hair a little too fast made him sob even more. “Please, please,” he begged, “do not, please do not.”

Findekáno moved his hand to Maitimo’s shoulder and rubbed him gently, until Maitimo had relaxed considerably, and he could be helped back to sleep. For a moment, Findekáno was glad Maitimo was much lighter than he had been before, and immediately reprimanded himself for thinking so.

When Findekáno returned to his own cot not two paces from Maitimo’s bed, he wondered if Maitimo had been awake at all, for as soon as he was lying down once more, he was almost as if unconscious. Findekáno was glad he had written to Findaráto for opium: it helped with Maitimo’s pains and got him to sleep, and calmed his outbursts. It was not often that he was angry or upset any more; now his outbursts consisted of uncontrollable crying, but they did not last long, and Findekáno could care for him alone. His outbursts were the worst at night, when he had been deep in his dreams, and woke to find himself still in the unending torment of living in his body.

Now, though, Maitimo’s sleeping figure was almost serene. It was dark, and Findekáno could almost imagine that his hair was folded underneath his head, and his still unhealed bruises were a result of fencing practice with his brother. And his arms were both under the covers.

 

“You are not a nurse, Findekáno,” Ñolofinwë spoke sternly. “We have healers for him, and you have your own room. It is unseemly for you to stay with him.”

“But I must!” Findekáno cried. “He needs me!”

“You are there with him because you feel it is your fault, because you were the one who cut his hand off. But you are his cousin and not his nurse. I would rather his feral brothers care for him in Himlad than you.”

“But he is my king, and he demands I care for him. Who am I to deny my king’s request?”

Ñolofinwë sighed and sagged in his seat. When Findekáno brought up Maitimo’s title, there was nothing that Ñolofinwë could say. In Middle-Earth, there was no appealing to the Valar to overrule the demands of the High King.

Findekáno knew Maitimo had mentioned giving up his title for his uncle some time ago, but he refused to listen to such talk. Maitimo was not in a fit state to make such a drastic decision.

There was no other ammunition for Ñolofinwë than a snarky tone. “I wonder why your king demands your presence in his room. You are not a trained nurse, I do not know what kind of care you must provide for him that no one else can do.”

Findekáno would have argued, but it would have been no use. He hoped Maitimo would keep his title and marry him and then no one would have anything to say any more.

“I thought of sending you to Minas Tirith to stay with Arafinwë's sons. Makalaurë is perfectly capable-”

“Makalaurë is not capable of anything!” Findekáno snapped. “Maitimo will not let anyone touch him but me. He will not let his brother see him in this state, not before he can grow back his hair.”

“Someone must rule the exiles in his stead. Without his word, it is Makalaurë, who is not here.”

Findekáno grit his teeth. “As long as I have a say, Makalaurë will not be here. No one will be ruling in Maitimo’s stead.”

“Maitimo is not fit-”

“He is perfectly fit! His mind is unaffected, it is only his body that is weak and needs time. I care for him, and should it be necessary, I will speak his words to you. And I assure you, they will be his words, not mine.”

Ñolofinwë sighed. “If you say so. I just hope it will not last long, and he is back on his feet soon. The exiles are uneasy.”

Findekáno refused to luncheon with his father.

Later, when Findekáno entered Maitimo’s room, he found the king standing, bracing himself on the bed-frame with his right arm, pissing in the chamber-pot. He seemed to have finished, and attempted to move, yet his legs still did not carry him well, and Findekáno was fast by his side, holding him up and guiding him to sit on the bed. Carefully he kicked the chamber-pot back under the bed.

Maitimo safely seated, Findekáno retrieved a wool under-shirt from the foot of the bed, and began to help Maitimo into it.

“Stop it,” Maitimo grumbled, “I am not a babe that needs to be dressed.” He seized the cloth himself and clumsily pushed his arms into the sleeves, and no longer complained when Findekáno smoothed it down to cover his body.

“If you need to piss, you don’t have to stand. What if I had not come in? What if you had fallen? Then it would have been even more embarrassing for you.”

To Findekáno’s surprise, Maitimo smirked a little. “You are my nurse, and I am not embarrassed with you. Not after all you have done.” Then he was serious again, and said, “I only wish you would do something to my hair. It pains me to feel it.”

“I haven’t a spell for it.” Findekáno hoped Maitimo did not hear the slight tremble in his voice.

“Braid it for me,” Maitimo demanded, turning sharply to Findekáno. “And bind it. And I’ll wear a cap, and I shall look like my mother going to sleep in Formenos. I tell you, feeling my hair like this hurts my very soul.”

“I know not how to braid,” Findekáno protested, his voice still soft, attempting to placate Maitimo. He had lied to his father when he said Maitimo’s mind was unaffected. “I can wash it for you, and dress it however you like. You needn’t feel it on your neck any more.”

Maitimo looked down on himself. “I think I must be washed, anyway.”

“Are you humble enough to admit you require my assistance?”

“I am too proud to accept the assistance of any but you.”

Cautiously Findekáno put his arm around Maitimo’s shoulders, and pulled him down against himself. In a moment of childlike comfort-seeking, Maitimo leaned his weight fully on Findekáno, burying his face in Findekáno’s neck, and grasped the front of Findekáno’s robes with his remaining hand.

Findekáno ran his hand up into Maitimo’s hair, now shorter but much neater than when he had been rescued, and said, “I have asked them to bring you a bath two hours before your dinner. They bring it here for you so you needn’t go wandering around back to the baths, where we washed you when you came here.”

As Findekáno had said, so was done, and some hours later the wooden tub, too small for Maitimo but no bigger could be found, sat in the middle of the room, and the servants departed once all had been settled. Maitimo knelt by the tub and tried the water with his hand. “Warm, for once,” he commented bitterly.

“If it would please you, I would take you south-”

“Don’t be ridiculous.”

But Maitimo made no move, not to rise from the floor nor to undress himself. No matter how he had been brought up, no matter how many times he had bathed his brothers like an older brother ought to, he could not bring himself to undress in front of Findekáno.

Findekáno noticed his hesitation, and said, “If it brings trouble, I can help you into the bath. Perhaps the shirt is difficult.”

“It’s not that,” Maitimo said. “I wish you would turn around at least. Preserve some of my dignity.”

“You were naked and pissing when I walked in here,” Findekáno joked, but turned around nonetheless. “Alright, I cannot see you. Ask for help if you need it.”

Findekáno knew Maitimo would not ask for help. Even if he had broken both of his legs and needed to be carried, he would never have asked for help. Findekáno learned the signs, and helped when he thought it necessary. Maitimo complained less than expected; it was his pride, Findekáno guessed.

With unsteady feet Maitimo pulled himself to stand up, bracing himself against the side of the tub. His arm, his wrist ached as he pressed it against the wood, and behind him he could hear Findekáno shifting on his feet. Suppressing the groans of pain attracted Findekáno’s doting way more than outright crying would have, but for now Findekáno remained standing where he was, and Maitimo was glad. He managed to stand, and clumsily pulled off his night-shirt, made more difficult by the pain as he avoided the use of his right arm entirely.

“You should get me some of that tea, if you want to be my nurse so badly,” Maitimo mumbled as he sank into the water, his knees bent awkwardly, a little too sharply. He leaned his head against them and wrapped his arms around his legs. When Findekáno did not move, he said, “You can look now.”

Findekáno turned, and for a moment he felt an overwhelming sadness for what had happened to them. Maitimo was the High King of the Noldor, and seeing him in a common servant’s bath somehow awakened Findekáno to the reality of their current situation. But it was no use, for they could not return to Aman, no matter what they did, for the sins of Maitimo’s father.

But in Beleriand Maitimo was the High King, and Findekáno was the servant. Long gone were the days when they had both been princes. Now Findekáno, as the dutiful servant, poured the drink for Maitimo at a side-table – it was not tea, not really; it had been brewn from herbs that were supposed to help with pain, and perhaps meant to be drunk warm, but Maitimo preferred it cold – and, as discreetly as he could, he opened a little black jet box that contained a white viscous substance. With the tea-spoon he took a small amount, but just as he had begun to mix it into the drink, Maitimo interrupted him once again.

“I know you put something in it,” he said. “I don’t see why you have to hide it. What is it?”

“Opium,” said Findekáno. “For the pain.” He brought the drink for Maitimo, who took it in his left hand and drank it almost at once.

Maitimo offered the cup back to Findekáno with a grimace. “It tastes disgusting.”

Findekáno replaced the cup on the side-table. “You know, when you first came back, it was the only thing that would help you. Findaráto told me not to give more than thrice a day, but sometimes you would have it twice in the evening just to get you to sleep.” He returned and knelt by the tub, reaching a hand to pet Maitimo’s hair, and another for the soap-dish to bring it closer. “And every day I have been by your side. My father discourages me and tells me I am not a nurse, but I cannot be parted from you.”

Maitimo reached for the soap, but it was on his right side, and in a moment of frustration he slammed his arm back under the water. Findekáno sighed and took up the soap himself.

“You know, I can wash you. It really is no trouble.”

Maitimo sighed and bent back his head. Findekáno dipped the soap into the water.

Maitimo’s wrist was no longer bandaged, and he thanked Eru for his elven body and its healing capabilities, for the wound had closed in a mere week. It had formed a scab and it hurt to touch, but he no longer required bandages, and it made cleaning much easier. The first few days, when a nurse, a real healer, had taken off the bandages twice a day for cleaning the bleeding wound, Maitimo had begged to be killed. That, Maitimo figured, was when Findekáno acquired the opium, because the only thing he remembered from his last bandage change was that it was Findekáno who did it, and he felt like he was floating. He assumed a healing spell had come with the opium.

Now Findekáno had his hand elbow-deep in the bath-water, rubbing the soap along Maitimo’s stomach and then towards his left side, humming lightly as Maitimo shifted and groaned when his bruises were pressed a little too hard. “I’m sorry,” Findekáno mumbled and shifted behind Maitimo to wash his back.

Maitimo leaned back against his knees, and Findekáno brought the water, cupped in his hands, up to the top of Maitimo’s back, then, softly, he rubbed the soap there. The wounds were the worst on Maitimo’s back, where he had been whipped. A man would have scarred terribly, or not survived at all; an elf’s wounds closed and scarred much easier and neater. Findekáno needed not be too careful as he passed the soap over the scabbed wounds, for the scabs were almost entirely scarred and there was no real danger of tearing them off any longer. Still, his hand was not firm; though Findekáno knew he could not make Maitimo bleed, he also knew it was not without pain.

With more water cupped in his hands, Findekáno lifted them above Maitimo’s head to wet his short hair. He swallowed. Being confronted with Maitimo’s hair, having to wash it himself, to touch it, seemed impossible. He did not know who it was that had washed it and cut it when Maitimo first arrived, but he was glad it had been done when he was away; Maitimo’s hair upon his rescue was short, but it was matted and chopped unevenly, and this was the best it could be, for now. Findekáno had not even known elven hair could be matted.

“Forgive me,” he said, “but I cannot do it. I cannot bring myself to touch you.”

Maitimo sighed. “You touched me on the beach at Alqualondë, do you remember? It was before Curufinwë had his baby. You were young then.”

Findekáno himself sighed also, and opened his cupped hands. Maitimo stiffened at the feel of the water on his head, trickling down his neck. His wet hair hurt him more than when it was dry. He swore his hair felt pain like his flesh.

With trembling hands, Findekáno rubbed the soap gently against Maitimo’s scalp, then set it aside at the edge of the tub as he began rubbing and spreading the now-foaming soap in Maitimo’s hair. Maitimo took the soap and dipped it under the water; Findekáno either did not notice, or wilfully ignored it. Washing Maitimo’s hair took all of his energy.

Maitimo sighed, and his left arm moved ominously. Quickly Findekáno withdrew his hands.

“I wasn’t doing anything,” Maitimo said. “Continue, please.”

“My father would kill me if he knew I was doing this,” Findekáno said, but continued nonetheless.

Findekáno dipped his hands under the water to rid them of the soap, and turned to take up a small pitcher. He filled it just above Maitimo’s lap – decidedly looking away as he did so – and then poured it over his head, repeating it a few times, until the soap had been entirely rinsed off. Maitimo returned the soap to the edge of the tub.

For a moment they sat so, Maitimo in the tub with his knees bent awkwardly, too sharply, Findekáno on his knees behind the tub. Findekáno clenched his hands on his lap.

Then Maitimo rose, bracing himself on the sides of the tub, and to avoid looking Findekáno rose also, and took hold of Maitimo’s body under his arms to steady him. Maitimo stepped out of the tub and took a few steps towards the bed. Findekáno reached for a towel and wrapped it around Maitimo’s shoulders, and then guided Maitimo to sit on the bed.

“Just a moment,” Findekáno said, and retrieved another towel, this time wrapping it around Maitimo’s head to cover his wet hair.

Maitimo caught a glimpse of himself in the dressing-table mirror. He would have wondered why his room had a dressing-table to begin with, but when he saw himself he thought he looked almost normal, almost as if nothing had happened at all. His hair was the most shocking part of him. When Findekáno let go of him again, to retrieve something or other, Maitimo fell on his back on the bed.

Findekáno gasped in surprise, and gasped again when he saw the state of his cousin, his king, on the bed and uncovered. Maitimo reached his hand to him.

“Come lie down with me,” he said. “I need a moment.”

Years and decades and centuries of pining, and when Maitimo offered himself, Findekáno found himself hesitating. But when his king asked, he could do nothing but comply.

 

Findekáno quickened before the first flowers of spring.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Thank you for reading!