TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Forging Advice	Khornenatter	2023-07-30	2023-07-30	1,174	1/1	3	33	2	241

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
General Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Mahtan Aulendur & Nerdanel	Mahtan Aulendur, Nerdanel (Tolkien), Fëanor | Curufinwë, Maedhros | Maitimo	Father-Daughter Relationship, Fluff and Humor, the tiniest bit of foreshadowing, Years of the Trees, Quenya Names

SUMMARY
Nerdanel asks her father for advice on dealing with a toddler

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Forging Advice


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
Quenya Guide:
atto - dad
onya - my child (endearing)
culmírë - carnelian


CHAPTER 1
“I just don’t know what to do, and frankly I was a bit annoyed with Náro’s habit of hiding in his forge!”
Nerdanel threw her arms up in exasperation, then sighed. His daughter was passionate as always, a blaze just like her hair, Mahtan thought to himself and chuckled. Said hair was done up in a simple, yet tight bun so it wouldn’t fall into their work. She had finished a sculpture of the High King and asked her father to craft a crown to adorn it, a fine combination of their crafts. Now the artisan duo sat at the kitchen table, resting after they had decided on the finishing touches for the crown.

“So you came to hide in my forge to show him what it’s like?” Mahtan asked her and Nerdanel shook her head, which surely would have sent coppery locks into the candle on the table were it not for the bun.

“No, the boys threw me out. He wants to cheer him up and he suggested getting out might help me clear my head. And I thought maybe you’d have an idea, atto.”

Mahtan smiled as he got up and brewed them a nice herbal tea. His secret weapon, a tea that never once failed to calm a family member down. He mused he should order some for Nerdanel’s little family to try, maybe his little grandson would like it.
“Let’s sit down and think about it together, onya. You know how much thinking out loud helps with solving riddles.”

Nerdanel sighed again and thought for a moment, probably trying to structure her thoughts to talk him through them.
“I took Maitimo to the park near our home in Tirion to play with children his age. Apparently these children convinced him Maitimo couldn’t be his name because many people say that when they coo over babies. So now he’s come to believe he doesn’t have an amilessë yet and wants to have one. Also he doesn’t want to be called Maitimo any more because he feels it undermines him being a big boy.”

Another burdened sigh followed. Mahtan gently pushed a cup of tea to her hands, which she obediently took to sniff. Another win for the family tea was scored, as she smiled faintly.
“You know, sometimes dealing with children’s problems is like trying to force inspiration. And just like inspiration, you have to carry on and sit it out until it is ready. How about this, you give him an epessë and revisit the subject when he’s ready for it?”

“I just don’t want to make it worse. What if he doesn’t understand what an epessë is?”

The smith’s hand found his daughter’s in encouragement, then he decided this wasn’t enough. He pushed his chair closer to hers and hugged her, strong and gently. Reassuringly, just as she knew it. Wildfires as they were, his daughter and his apprentice had wed young and thus were young when they begot their child. How could Mahtan not offer her all of his strength and advice when she was so overwhelmed?
“Hush, my little culmírë. One of the true challenges of childrearing is knowing when to ride it out and when to intervene. They grow, and he will grow to understand sooner than you’ll think. You remember the time your sister refused to wear other colours than blue?” He heard a soft giggle from the not-an-elfling-anymore cuddling him. As if he could ever think of her and not remember the child she’d been. “We let her and she grew out of it. Children do that, onya. I’m sure you’ll find a nice epessë to give all of you some peace of mind.”

They enjoyed the hug for a while longer. The tea cooled down, discarded in favour of the need to reassure each other. When Nerdanel mumbled a soft thanks because they spontaneously housed her for the night, Mahtan chuckled again and let go of her to look into her eyes.
“Of course you’re welcome! Your rooms will always be ready for you!” he announced. “Now, what did Fëanáro devise to cheer up the little one?”

Finally Nerdanel’s bright laughter filled the kitchen again.
“Oh he found a book on light projections and shadows on the market, I think. When you make specific gestures with your hands in front of a source of light, you can make the shadows form images. He practised those gestures the whole day and even showed some to me when Maitimo napped. Apparently he tried to learn gestures for representations for every one of the Valar and wants to see which one Maitimo favours.”

Two voices now laughed and giggled in harmony. Fëanáro was quite the competitive one, but from Nerdanel’s anecdotes it seemed that trait made him a playful father. If anyone would have told Mahtan his unruly apprentice would delight in inventing children’s games, he would have escorted them to Estë’s realms himself.

“Then please ask him to send word of the results back to me! I am curious and you know how much your mother, Aulë and I enjoy your letters!”

“Of course. I’m sure Náro is going to defend Aulë’s honour bravely!”

Dear teachers,

first of all thank you for the idea with the epessë! I am confident the one we came up with will please you as much as it does the little one: He is known amongst family and friends as Russandol now, or Russo in short.

But I know you are curious about another matter, so I will use the new-found homely peace to tell you. As Nerdanel told you already, I prepared a shadow theatre to cheer Russo up. Ah he is a truly imaginative storyteller, and I am sure if he were to tell his stories slow enough for me to write them down, he could become an accomplished author even at this age! I am inclined to venture into the linguistic studies to try and devise a quicker writing system.

Anyway, he loves the shadow theatre and even expanded on it by using the shapes of his toys to make more elaborate shadow imagery!
Sadly – despite my best efforts I desperately seek to assure you – the imagery I devised to show Aulë was not the one he favoured most. Instead he fell in love with Manwë’s eagle and the way you can invoke the illusion of the eagle flying by simply moving your fingers.

Alas Nerdanel reminds me of the wisdom you sent her on her way with: Children go through many developments and changes at this age. I think I am going to repeat this game after his next begetting day and relay any news to you.

Please give your family (and maiar and apprentices, as I was told our letters enjoy a wide audience) our best wishes. How far in advance would you need to know of our intentions to visit with Russandol? I wish to give you enough time to child-proof the house for him.

With our warmest regards,

Fëanáro, Nerdanel and Russandol


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
... yes, the author might have their own name-related issues to work through. Yes, they might have lead to the author having opinions on Feanor's and Nerdanel's naming style