TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
A Brief Respite	NadineTook	2023-09-02	2023-09-02	7,591	1/1	22	58	10	662

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Teen And Up Audiences	Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings, No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien, TOLKIEN J. R. R. - Works & Related Fandoms

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Elros Tar-Minyatur & Maglor | Makalaurë, Elrond Peredhel & Elros Tar-Minyatur & Maglor | Makalaurë, Elrond Peredhel & Maglor | Makalaurë, Elrond Peredhel & Elros Tar-Minyatur, Elrond Peredhel & Maedhros | Maitimo, Maedhros | Maitimo & Maglor | Makalaurë	Maglor | Makalaurë, Elros Tar-Minyatur, Elrond Peredhel, Maedhros | Maitimo, Erestor (Tolkien), Amrod and Amras-mentioned	Family Bonding, Family Dynamics, Dysfunctional Family, Hurt/Comfort, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder - PTSD, Fluff and Angst, Young Elrond Peredhel, Eldritch Peredhel (Tolkien), -slightly, elrond acts like a maia, elros acts....well I'm not sure but he will bite your ankles off, Complicated Relationships, Forced found family, Tooth-Rotting Fluff, Quenya, Insomnia, Unhealthy Coping Mechanisms, Tolkien Reverse Summer Bang 2023, Tolkien Reverse Summer Bang, slide #42

SUMMARY
Maglor yearns to mend the shattered bonds between the twins and strives to change the painful titles of hostage and captor, yearning for a semblance of normalcy in their dysfunctional family. However Elros remains resolute in his reluctance in embracing the broken vision of family that Maglor has spun, while Maedhros sinks deeper into self-loathing and endless nights of insomnia.

Elrond-he however harbours a different plan.

In the midst of a chaotic night, Elrond and Maedhros mysteriously disappear, leaving Maglor and Elros no choice but to abandon there predetermined roles and work together. In their pursuit-they confront there conflicts-and for a moment-a fleeting time, they find solace and a brief respite in each other.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
A Brief Respite


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
This was created for Tolkien Reverse Summer Bang 2032 (trsb23) for @ununumtroissept who created this stunning art piece here for this fic!

I’m in awe that I got to write a piece for such wonderful artwork, and I hope you all enjoy this fanfic as much as I loved writing it. It has gone through many painful revisions trying to capture the exact essence of this dysfunctional family-don't worry-it doesn't stay dysfunctional for long. You will all get the family fluff feels that we all want soon enough :>

More notes and quenya translations at the end ♥


CHAPTER 1
In Valinor, they said it was a symptom of idleness, when he began to compose-or worse-malaise in his fathers absence-when he spent long days in court, ever using his voice against their Uncle Nolofinwe. Get him a bow in his hand, replace his scriptures with arrows in his satchel, a sword at his hip. The sons of Feanor must be useful in paradise. They beg. Fix him. Maglor understands. Only then he will feel the noble, burning bloodlust of the Feanorians running swiftly through his veins.

He hears ink scratching on parchment as he writes another lyric. The ink is blood red as he composes another with just his words, a hymn that will never be sung. His creations are pale shadows without a voice, but he could not bring himself to sing anymore.

Like all those years before, when his attendants called his ancient work useless, his thoughts were idle once more. Maglor had isolated himself for the night, hidden in his warm linen tent as his eyes traced the swirling shadows of dancing elves and ribbons. He was never one to miss parties. He had made sure that they had at least one celebration each year, ever since they had been pushed out of Himring.

Tables overflowed with roasts, pheasants and stuffed geese congealing in their own fat while elves fought over the sweet meat of their necks and wings; platters overflowing with fruits and clear glass jars brought from the cellars with peppers and mushrooms and strange, unknown things preserved in brine and oils; salted strips of meat fed to the dogs and what is left of his younger brothers hounds. It is as far as Maglor can imagine from the scent of sliced lemons and the hellebore that ornaments his fathers royal table in Tirion.

Yet it seems that the elves here have all forgotten the richness they once bathed in, and stay content in their celebrations, despite their Lord Maedhros grumbling about the fact that they could barely afford to feed most of their troops. It was by pure loyalty that they stayed in such poor conditions, though Maglor liked to insist it was the parties that kept up their morale.

Idle work. Idle hands, his father’s attendants had said, centuries before. Back then, the light of Valinor might as well have been seared onto his retinas. They do not see how deft and strong his fingers have become.

From nearly a millennium of fighting and bloodshed, to find that last sliver of light from a bygone era. It feels wrong to wash the blood from his long fingers and just go back to composing.

“Will Lord Maedhros be joining us tonight?” Someone in the corner of the tent asks. He looks over, surprise etched on his face. He forgot that he was not truly alone. Erestor sat nearby upon a plush pillow, tapping inconsistently with a pen, so offbeat that it made Maglor want to scream.

“I hope not,” he muttered, half under his breath. He didn't care really if Erestor heard. It seemed like he did, for he could feel the timid elf’s questioning gaze from across the room.

He scribbled at the board of music notes, watching the ink blot and soak away his work. All because he thought of Maedhros again. His brother carved two faces for him, a warrior to conquer a throne and a minstrel to bring solace to the people. He dons one and sheds the other as easily as his sumptuously embroidered coats. His hands are barely washed of blood and already he is an object of comfort, a prayer for reassurance, even when the already dwindling army waver in their faith of the Feanorians.

From the parapets he becomes a mouthpiece for Maedhros, who rarely talks to anyone these days. We will reclaim what we lost , he says, the words hot and clear on his tongue.

His hands clench at his robes, so tightly they leave imprints in his skin. Why do such thoughts plague his mind? He dips his pen in the ink, before setting it down. He should find the twins and try to coax them to join him for a tea ceremony. Last time that happened, Elros had tried throwing boiling water at his face.

Despite his best efforts, Elros especially refused to do anything with him. He showered them in devotion and gifts. In any chance he had, Elros defied him and Elrond stayed silent. They even clung to the attendants' robes in spite of him. Maedhros says, with gaping yawning bags under his eyes, that they will never be what he wants them to be.

Just like his brother, he is trying to carve the twins into something they are not. He thinks solemnly. Yet he can't bring myself to care. The sight of Elros should bring him guilt from his latest conquest and the failure of the Silmaril. All he feels is his want, the idea that he could hold the twins, as sons and not let go.

He suddenly heard the patter of discordant stomping and someone struggling fiercely in opening the tent door. He sighed with a slight smile, knowing exactly who it was. It was as if he summoned the most aggressive twin with his thoughts. The steps stopped behind him, as if waiting. He folded up his paper and slid it into the drawer - such a deeply polished wood from Ossiriand that it was bronze. Now, Maglor waited without acknowledgment, regardless of how rude his new young guest was behaving.

“You know it's proper to introduce yourself before you enter a Noldorian tent, Elros,” he said with a grin growing across his face.

“You made that up”

He did, but at least Elros had stopped denying him anytime he called him one of the Noldor. There was more silence, and he could feel the boy's gaze boring into his skull as he stayed rigidly in place. He cocked his head, wondering what he wanted.

Maglor in all of his years never met someone quite as stubborn as he. Of course, his brothers challenged that quite often, maybe all of the Feanorians had such unyielding blood. Even so, he was ready for that eventually one day either he would grow lenient or he would face off one that could rival all. So maybe it should not surprise him that some Finwean blood mixed with maia would create his match and surpass him.

He just never expected it to be a peredhel of less than eight years and a third of his size.

Maglor cracked first. “What is it that you need, Elros? I thought you were with Maedhros and your brother?”

He thinks how much of a pain that is. The hostilities between Elros and himself had not yet found a truce, but with Maedhros it seemed the boy had a whole list of insults he could make. It was good that a loud celebration was commencing outside, or otherwise he might have heard there yelling all the way from here.

“He was trying to teach us sword fighting,” Elros replied, surprising Maglor. “He got mad.” As he said this, he walked close to Maglor, passed him then crouched down beside the sunken hearth.

“Steel is cold,” Elros grumbled, hovering his hand over the small flames.

Maglor twisted to face the twin, legs crossed. “And?”

“And what?”

“What happened after ‘he got mad’?” Maglor asked, before standing up and sitting next to Elros.

The young Peredhel scowled at him. “My brother whispered something to him and Maedhros and he immediately calmed down.” Elros furrowed his eyebrows. “Then they just left.”

“Left?” Maglor laughed incredulously. “I didn't know you liked to spin tales, Elros.”

Elros flicked some dirt off his nails. “Elrond told me to stay back and led Maedhros into the woods. So I got bored.”

“So you came here instead?” Maglor asked.

Elros hesitantly nodded. Maglor smiled, in a slight victory, before he was reminded of his other counterpart.

Elrond was always the twin that challenged him the most. Yes he was quiet and timid, unlike his other half. However when he did speak, his words did not belong to one of an eight year old elfling. It was no secret he was closest with himself and Maedhros, or at least, the most open one, however he found the young elf looking at him when he thought he couldn't see him.

Sometimes he forgot how young and piercing those eyes were, that glowed as bright as the day he found him huddling on the pale dunes of the beach, eyes gleaming like Silmarils through the mist.

“So what do you think he said?” Maglor asked, as he began drying a wooden bowl with golden edges. He decided he would make them some tea.

“I don’t know!” Elros complained, throwing his hands up in the air. “Not that I care. That's not what I’m worried about. What if they are lost? What if Elrond accidentally wandered off and into the forest? He doesn't do well with crowds of people-”

“Calm yourself Elincë. They are fine, I’m sure of it”

He watched as the boy's face wrinkled at the remark. “Don't call me that,” Elros said, raising his chin up in defiance.

Maglors lips quirked up in a smile and then slowly lit the charcoal with the irori, and set about preparing the tea.

He could have Elros join him in a tea ceremony, he already had everything he needed for it. If only Elrond was here, the only person stopped Elros from acting rash.. He pressed his lips into a jagged line. It shouldn't be something he should be worried about. The worst thing that could happen is Elrond attempting to murder Maedhros.

The thought was so ridiculous that he nearly laughed. How easily the twins could slip behind him, alone with his silk and the tips of his fingers - only to look up and see the twins face above his own in the tapestry mirror, the zealous flash of a dagger. How splendidly his blood would illuminate the threads before him.

He wondered if Maedhros teaches them the way of the sword, in his own hope for them to assist in his suicide.

He picked up an extra wooden bowl on the side and slid it over to the boy. “Here, join me in my tea ceremony. That will keep you entertained.”

Elros face scrunched up in distaste. “That sounds so dull.”

“I know but if you can't find Maedhros, stay with me, I can't have you get lost in the crowd outside and wander off.”

There is a moment where he thinks he is going to refuse, but then Elros reaches over, and deftly picks up the spoon.

“It is better than trying to hold a sword.” Elros says, poking at his adjacent bowl.

He looks at Elros’s hands, who are soft, save a few white scratches. Then he looks down at his, the only similarity between them is the pallor, but the mangles look is completely different. His hand holds the arcs of many callouses from hilts of swords and iron. He holds them to the light, raw and primed for war.

Suddenly he feels a soft brushing on his leg. He looks down to see Elros poking his leg, peering back at him confused.

“What are you thinking?” he asks and at first he sees no furrow in his brows, or tight lipped anger.

“Nothing.” He replies, mustering up a smile. “Once you truly get used to the heaviness of a blade, I am sure you will finally be content with it.”

Content. That is all he wants from Elros.

“Why do I need to learn to fight with a sword? I am not going to kill like you do.”

Maglor feels the jab reverberate in his chest, but he does his best to ignore it. It seemed like he could not have a truce with Elros for even one night. “You need to defend yourself, Elros. To defend both you and your brother.”

He should have expected the quip that came next as soon as he opened his mouth.

“Did you need to defend yourself against my mothers people?” Elros asks. He says it so innocently, with a blank expression, but there is a lilt of hostility in his voice.

Maglor has difficulty replying to that. He hears himself swallow. Elros now looks at him like he always had, like a gnawing beast. Maglor finds himself retreating, by standing up and taking the kettle out of the fire. Silence. He abhors silence. He has a feeling Elros knows it.

He stirred the water once more, the spoon clinking as he knocked it against the metal so it wouldn't drip. Where was Elrond when he needed him? He would either diffuse by a simple smile, or words more silver tongued than he. The half-maia was always unpredictable.

But then, sudden words pierced the air.

“Maglor.'' He could barely hide his pleasant surprise when Elros said his name. Elros had taken to calling him anything but his actual name, not acknowledging except “that elf” while his brother had taken a more open approach, still ignoring his request to call him Ada.

“What is it my dear?” The words left his mouth before he noticed his Elros had gotten up swiftly and knelt his bowl in front of him. Just as Maglor hesitantly poured the water, he heard the child whisper something faint, something never heard before on Elros’s lips.

“Thank you… Maglor.”

His name was strange in the boy's mouth, well, not strange, it belonged there, Maglor knew it. No, the strange part was how Elros said it, like he couldn’t quite figure out the pronunciation of it.

Even more surprising, a small smile graced his features. Pure. Innocent.

He remembered when he used to be like that.

He knows why he is so fascinated with the twins. The twins are everything the Feanorians are supposed to abhor, the blood of Maia that refused to aid, failure of the Silmarils and the destruction of two kingdoms. Discrepancy. Misalignment. Calamity.

For his part, he is mesmerised by the illusion they create, flickering on and out of a torchlight like two sides of the same statue. He traces the deception of their shared similitude with his eyes. In the right light he sees his own face in theirs; and at the wrong angle, what he used to be, and everything he lost.

He is drawn to their soft tangle of thick hair, plaited with colour- and he is reminded of his own set of twins-his red haired brothers, ones who used to hold his hand under the light of the two trees, only to feel so cold now.

He stops himself from reaching out, for there seems to be a gape in his chest and he needs the healing of a maia. All he wants is to set aside the roles of a hostage and captor and for a moment cling onto a brief respite. It is selfish, he knows to crave for family, when he has abandoned his own.

Son and Father. Father and Son..

Elros looks up to him. He finds his face twisting into a wry smile. If he said that out loud, he wouldn't blame Elros for the slap that would come.

“My lord Macalaurë!”

Someone burst into the tent, jostling them so severely causing nearly both of them to spill their drinks onto their robes. Maglor blinked rapidly, as the trance dissipated.

He adjusts his voice like he tunes a lyre, speaking with cold warning. “What is it that is so important to interrupt our ceremony?” He asks the guard, whose name was so unimportant that he forgot.

The elf went rigid, his eyes glancing between them, and the un-proper way the tea had been made, which was now turning a frothy green.

Instead he took a deep breath and bowed. “Apologies lord,” he says, “I have some ill news.”

Maglor feels strangely uncomfortable with the formalities, despite being used to such necessities. It is in his brothers’ company that he comes to understand his people do not offer obeisance, do not bow and genuflect and shower him in praise because they want to. They do so because they must.

Because standing before a Feanorian. - even a mere elf - requires obsequiousness as much as devotion. The only ones who owe him no kindness by obligation are the twins. With them, he learned about how much one could love without being clouded by blood ties.

It is only then, when he is shaken out of his thoughts when he hears what the guard says next.

“Lord Maedhros and his Sire Elrond are missing.”

Now it was Elros' turn to jump up, his face drained of colour. “What?” he demanded, turning deathly still. “What do you mean? Are they lost?”

He feels a twisted sense of pride, the way the guard feels even more intimidated under the boy's gaze than his own. He shifts his stance, eye darting, teeth grinding. He wisely kept his tongue.

“That is what we believe. They should have been back to commemorate the celebrations…..yet there is no sign of them.”

Elros rounded on him, an accusatory finger jabbing at Maglor’s chest. “This is your fault!”

Maglor felt himself engulfed in frustration, and nearly put his face in his hands. Just when he was nurturing the belief that Elros had outgrown the tendency to blame everything on him. Once again their relationship capsized once more.

He could feel the other elf staring at him in confusion as he lets Elros yell more accusations. “You tricked me! You must have done this, made Maedhros bring Elrond into the forest to hurt him.”

“Don't be-”

Suddenly Erestor came up behind Elros, placing his hands on his shoulders and shocking both of them. He had forgotten that he was there.

“Now, now young sire, Maedhros is also missing so let's not call him the perpetrator. I am sure lord Macalaurë has no intentions in harming you or your brother.”

Elros grumbled but did not shrug off Erestors grip. Maglor watched as his attendant shook his silky hair, a look spoken between them, easily communicated.

He has every right to yell at you, Erestor said through his eyes. Let him.

A sigh escaped his lips as he turned back to the guard, who stiffened under his gaze. He finds some small satisfaction in the way he shudders when he notices him at last. The way he hears his breath quicken, the apology that tumbles from their quivering mouths for not noticing him sooner.

“Tell me more. There is clearly some information we are missing from all of this.”

“Does it matter?” Elros budges in, his lips quivering ever so slightly. “It is already dark out, we need to find them right away.”

“The night might still be helpful,” Maglor points out, ruffling Elros’s hair that stills him. “Starlight will be our guide. We can use torches and lamps.”

“So we send out a search party?” Erestor suggests, striking a match to light a blue lamp awaiting on a desk.

“No.”

A hush descends around him at his words.

“What do you mean, my lord-”

“I will go looking for them myself. There is no need to bother anyone else with sending out a search party.”

He feels Elros’ seething eyes boring in the back of his head, but he ignores his tantrums. He feels Erestor’s raise his eyebrows.

“Of course Macalaurë. If you think that is best.”

Maglor feels a laugh bubble up between his teeth. “This is Lord Maedhros we are talking about. I know my brother, he is most certainly not lost,” he reassures. No, his brother was never lost, just detached, as if he was already gone from the circles of Arda. “I assure you this is probably his intention.”

“But what of Elrond?” Elros says “What of my brother?”
For once there is not an inkling of anger, but of worry. It unnerves him enough that he wants to hold him close and comfort him.

He does none of that, as Erestor hands him his travel cloak, less lavish than his others and works it over his shoulders. It seemed he guessed his master's mood as he handed another layer of robe, a purple velvet and placed it deftly over his forearms.

“Do not let anyone know of their absence.” Maglor orders the guard, who bows once more, and with the sharp turn of his head, leaves. It was just then he realised something was tugging sharply near the hem, and he looked down to see Elros’ foot stamped tightly on it.

"Elros, please release your grip on my cloak," Maglor beseeched, his voice tinged with exasperation. "Don't you want me to find your brother? Instead of this futile endeavour, why not assist Erestor in tidying up after the tea ceremony?"

Elros, however, met Maglor's plea with defiance, yanking on a cloak of his own, as if to challenge his elder's authority. Maglor had expected this response.

"Very well," he conceded, relishing the way Elros' defiant grin faltered into a reluctant frown. "But we must establish a few ground rules. Rule number one: stay close to me—"

Before Maglor could continue, Elros briskly strode out of the entrance, leaving Maglor blinking in surprise.

"I swear," Maglor muttered under his breath, "that boy is going to be the death of me one day."

Erestor, standing nearby, chimed in with unhelpful commentary, "I'm quite certain that's precisely what he desires."

Maglor shook his head, his lips curling into a wry smile. "No, he's cut from the same cloth as me, and he knows it."

With a resigned sigh, he lowered his head and stepped through the linen flap, ready to find not only Elrond now, but his hotheaded twin as well.

The party still commenced, most unknown to the fact that their high lord was quietly missing. Elaborate silken banners danced in the grips of peoples hands, or hung on his poles with paintings, carvings and intricate baubles that soon it all seemed to mesh into a smear of colour.

He spotted Elros almost instantly, whose eyes unfocused swayed like a shaking reed as the mess of the celebration surged around him. It hit him like a warm wave, when he realised Elros was enraptured by the poetry that was being sung, which he could see from the way he tilted his ear upwards. It was his poetry that was being sung, however it paled in comparison without his voice. Which posed a problem for him because as soon as he exited his tent, the elves crowded their lord, cheering for him to sing next.

It took all his might to respectfully decline, and he nearly lost Elros again when a hymn picked up in tempo and people spun with their lavishly spun robes, blocking his view once more.

He finally found Elros, who too was backed up from going any further by a female elf with four colourful jade pins that skewered the buns and with traditional painted makeup with flickering swirls that cooed over him and pinched his cheeks. He would have to thank the lady later, though how unpleasant it was to wait through Elros being poked and squeed at. Finally, he gripped his shoulder and led him towards the edge of the party.

“You just watched me get prodded like that and you did nothing,” Elros accused as the noise from the party slowly died as they walked further.

“It was deserved,” he laughed, finally letting go of his shoulder. Elros didn't find it quite as amusing.

Even with the lanterns, it seemed as if the dark was trying to suffocate its flame. Elros’s gleaming eyes are fixed on his own.

“It is good that they did not stop me, or I’m afraid we would never leave the celebration.” He was grateful he did not have to coat his words in honey before addressing a crowd of drunk elves that their lord was quietly missing. It was good that wine flowed heavy tonight, on the ground and wooden stalls, or else they might have noticed his absence if sober.

“Hmm,” Elros quietly hums. The tree trunks wound around old tattered trunks, shadowing the trees even further in the night. Blue light spills onto their faces, colouring the undergrowth in purple.

The cracks where the thicket opened into night and then stars.
Suddenly he felt Elros’s hand curl at his own. His breath hitched as his hands pressed urgently onto his agate rings as if nervously tugging on them.

He frowns. Why was Elros holding his hand? Warmth tingled in his chest and he found himself blinking owlishly.

“What is wrong?” Maglor finds himself asking, the words tumbling out of his silver mouth.

Elros does not answer, instead peering into the shadows as if they were going to jump at him.

“Ah,” he says, realisation dawning on his face. “You're scared of the dark, aren't you?”

Little did Elros know, he too was scared of the dark. All of the Feanorians were; terrified of the day they would face the everlasting darkness. Maybe it was why Maedhros never slept, for closing your eyes it felt like it was upon you.

The darkness Maglor was afraid of was the one that cast over the battlefield in the Nírnaeth Arnoediad. In the smog and smoke that was thick as blood, all Maglor had been able to see were men raving, mad with pain, else empty sacks of flesh, something extinguished behind their eyes. Limbs lost to the blades, others to wounds that festered from dragon's breath. Those burned by balrogs were beyond help, unrecognisable, their lips and eyes turned to candle wax by cursed fire.

Maglor held onto Elros’ hand a little tighter. A faint breeze rustled through the leaves, carrying the scent of earth and the distant fragrance of wildflowers.

The moon rose higher and higher, bathing the land in bright light to the point the lantern upon his hand was hardly needed. Soon the constellations weaved their tapestries in the skies, reflecting in the pools of their eyes.

“Look!” Maglor declared, pointing at a particularly blue star right above them. “That my dear Elros, is Elemmíre! She was such a beauty, even back in the days of Valinor.”

“All you are saying is that you're old.” Elros grumbled.

“I am! And one day you will be just as ancient.”

He continued walking, only to realise his shadow was not following. He looked back to see Elros reaching farther up into the constellations, as if he was tracing the path of stars with his childish fingers.

Maglor’s breath hitched when it landed on the next star over, the one he hoped to avoid.

“Earandil,” his voice is almost a whisper. The star that holds the Silmaril shines so bright it might as well have been a miniature sun.

He was hoping it would hide snug between the abundance of branches so that Elros would not have found it, but he should have expected as much.

He knew what the young peredhel was thinking. His real Ada was there.

The thought stoked a white hot rage in his chest. How could he compete with this Earandil when his son still worshipped him from down below? Elros could never love Maglor as long as Earandil still orbited the sky, a constant reminder of his abandonment? Fathers who leave should never have the right to have their children love them-

It was at the same time he realised it was not Elros’ father that he resented his own. It was unfair this hate. He loved his father, Feanor had always been a good person. But he had left. Everyone left. His brothers are dead. Maedhros who never slept, whose face was so badly scared he might as well have been dead. What was unfair was trying to drag both Elros and Elrond into a dysfunctional family, one that had essentially murdered their own.

“Maglor?” Elros said, worry evident in his voice. “Why are you shaking?”

He began walking again, not waiting for Elros to follow.

“Wait! We should search this area more.” Elros says furiously fast, keeping up his pace. His teeth cracked into place as refused to look back at Elros. He needed to stop attaching himself to others, stop trying to mould people into what he wants them to be instead of what they should-

He felt small hands grab his own, eliciting a gasp as he tried to pull away. He turned around, ready to snap at Elros, to say he should not put trust in him to protect him because he would fail, when Elros suddenly hissed, tugging him forward.

“Shush!” Elros said abruptly, waving his hand as he sunk into a crouch. Maglor swivelled around, confused. What had Elros noticed before he did?

“There is a light,” Elros said, shivering, pointing northward. Maglor squinted, noticing a soft glow he had not seen before. It was much closer than he expected, and he felt slightly ashamed that he had not seen it sooner.

“What is it?” Elros questioned, his hand going to his wooden knife on his side, the one he had carved for him. Maglor examined the fire, it seemed as if someone had made a camp. However despite being far away, he could feel the warmth of the flame seeping into his bones.

“Seems inviting enough.” Maglor reassures, standing up. He offers a hand to Elros, who seems to keep surprising him tonight, because he takes it.

They creep over to the light, a stark contrast between the blackness of the night. From afar it almost looked like its own little world, in the empty space of the cosmos.

Elros was the first to react, a gasp escaping his lips as he recognized the face that the warm hearth light revealed.

"Elrond!" he exclaimed, his face breaking into a radiant grin. But what he saw next left Maglor frozen in place.

A soft, enigmatic smile graced Elrond's visage, his index finger delicately pressed against his lips, akin to a god beckoning his subjects to silence. Yet, it was the sight that unfolded beneath Elrond's tender gaze that sent shockwaves to the very core of Maglor's being.

Lying upon Elrond's knee was a figure with fiery red hair, fanned out like a vast expanse of crimson roses. Maglor could hardly comprehend what he was witnessing.

"I don't understand..." he found himself muttering, his voice unintentionally too loud. There before him lay his brother, his lord, with his eyes peacefully closed. Maedhros, his brother who hadn't known rest in countless years, was doing the unthinkable—sleeping.

"Shhhhh," Elrond hushed, his voice a gentle breeze, his index finger maintaining its gentle seal against his lips. "Please be quiet. We don't want to wake Ada up."



–
In the ensuing stillness, the world illuminated by the light felt suspended in time, as though the very air held its breath. Maglor, though still perplexed, began to perceive the rise and fall of Maedhros' chest, the steady rhythm of his slumber. It was a sight so rare, so miraculous, that it seemed almost otherworldly.

He found himself falling to his knees next to his brother, Elros falling in suit as he plopped next to Elrond, everyone still and silent. Elrond slowly lowered his finger from his lips, his smile never fading.

“I am sorry if I caused anyone to worry,” Elrond said, ever composed. When he speaks, there is no lilt of request in his voice. Only the clear command of divinity. “Please accept my apology.”

He nodded, unknowingly to himself, lowering his body even closer to his brother. Silently, he reached out to brush a strand of Maedhros' hair away from his face, the touch reverent as though handling the most delicate of treasures.

“You are still very young,” he finds himself saying. “A mountain whose peak still blooms with green moss. You are bound to make mistakes.”

Elrond bows his head and Maglor wonders when he deserved that kind of respect. Why was Elrond so different from his brother? Their hair was the same, a deep brown bathed in the blue of the night. Absent-mindedly, he believes with certainty that a golden circlet belonged there.

They are seated against a tree, one green with moss that provides almost a pillow-like structure for Elrond to rest his head. Rocks dot over the surface like twinkling faeries as light pours through the trees like fractured glass, casting an ethereal glow upon the twins.

It seemed as if they had been here for a while judging by the way Maedhros tilted his head into the crook of his own neck. Maglor still found himself blinking as he looked at his brother. It seems so familiar. As he speaks, his eyes burn with memory. “How did you get him to sleep?”

He had never seen his brother like this before. No, he had, but it was so long ago that even an elven mind could forget.

Maedhros’ breathing, once hurried and erratic during the waking hours, settled into a rhythmic cadence, like a soothing lullaby for their own restless soul. Each inhale and exhale was a gentle sigh. Muscles that had been taught with tension now loosened, and his one remaining hand laid steady on his chest, while the stub of his other sprawled in the grass, his eyelids fluttering beneath closed lids, as if dreams painted his mind upon their vivid canvases.

Maglor felt his eyes widen. Those pristine bandages on the stub of his arm were white as snow, newly wrapped.

“Did you…..” he breathed, barely able to contain his awe as he felt the linen perfectly snug and as he tugged tightly at the swathe.

“Yes I did,” Elrond replied, gingerly moving closer to him. “To answer both of your questions, I am not sure how I made him fall asleep. He rested his head for a moment as I fixed up his bandages, and he didn't stir until I was finished. That was when I realised he was asleep, so I haven't moved since.”

Maedhros never let anyone touch his bandages, nevertheless aid in bandaging his arm. He always wanted to seem competent enough to do so, so the fact he had let a child do it for him? He thought for a moment that Elrond had cast a spell on him.

"You are a natural-born healer, Elrond," he spoke, savouring the way the peredhel's eyes brightened at the compliment. "I have a premonition that you will become a magnificent healer as you grow older."

His gaze returned to Maedhros, the scars etching graceful contours on his cheekbones as he slept. All the harsh and unpleasant expressions that typically marred his features were smoothed away as his head rested serenely on Elrond's lap.

Elros, who had been silently plucking a low-hanging fruit nestled in the flowerbeds, suddenly chimed in, his voice jarring in contrast to the tranquil moment. "So that's what you whispered to him!" he exclaimed, raising his voice. "You offered to fix his bandages!"

“They were getting dirty.” Elrond admitted, glancing at his twin. For a fleeting moment he watches as something passes between them, unspoken. Twin telepathy, he had seen it before, on molten coloured hair and long dead faces. When it just felt as if it was his brothers and himself in the universe.

What seems to be a tiny disagreement between them dispersed, and Elros mentally yielded. With a grumble, he turns his head to Maedhros, with an odd expression appearing on his features. Sparing one last glare from Elrond, he picks up the red berry that he had picked from the reeds.

“Maglor,” Elros said, quieter than usual. Opening his palm he offered him a fruit. “Elrond said I should apologise. For blaming you for his disappearance.”

There was a flush that creeped up on the boy's face. “He also told me to call you Ada.”

If he could be even more shocked, he would be at the sight of Elros comfortably braiding grass into Maedhros’ silky locks. “Well I assume that not even Elrond can convince you to say that.” He sighed, a sarcastic smile quirking at the corner of his lips.

Elros matched his gaze, cocking his head to the side. “Well….” he gave Maglor the smallest of smiles. “Not yet”

Maglor nearly dropped the fruit that was half-way sunken into its flesh. Did he just say what he thought he said?

“Elrond,” he began again, something gnawing at his mind. He didn't want to bring it up, or else the words would ring untrue, and it was just a misspoken mistake. Please be quiet. We don't want to wake Ada up. “Did you call Maedhros, Ada?”

Elrond looked at him, still smiling reposed. As if he expected this question.

“Yes.”

He found himself staring in disbelief. He had spent these last two years trying to be a father to them in their real ones absence. He knew it was not right, trying

“Why?” he found himself repeating the words in his head.
Elros, still absorbed in the delicate task of braiding blades of grass into red hair, seemed unfazed by the revelation. He glanced up briefly, his gaze meeting Maglor's.

"You see," Elros mused, his tone lighter than before, "Elrond doesn't think before he speaks."

He hears Elrond laugh, elbowing his brother in the stomach at his remark. Tension slowly dissipates like morning mist under the gentle warmth of the sun. “Because Maedhros cares. I can see it.” he says. “And the words just slipped.”

Maglor felt something sinking in his chest. Hadn't he cared? He had shown his love through every way he could. Why had Maedhros been acknowledged as such when he barely exclaimed his good remarks about the twins?

Maedhros shifted in his sleep, nuzzling his head against the grass, and all hopes of jealousy vanished. Why should he be called such when he hadn't realised Elrond and Maedhros had gotten this close.
Suddenly he felt childlike hands brush his legs, and he peered upon eyes that seemed to hold more knowledge then his ancient self.

“I know you care too. You care a lot.”

His breath hitches, looking at the way Elrond beamed, lighting up any shadows concurred around them. Maglor leaned in, extending a hand to tousle Elros's hair playfully, a gesture that spoke volumes in its newfound affection. "You're beyond your years, you know that?”
Elros who was digging his fingers into a peachy fig let out a splutter.

“What is it, Elros?” his eyes narrowed. His shoulders were shaking. Was Elros choking?

Then he realised he was laughing, as a giggle bubbled up between his teeth.

“Elrond beyond his years? Do I have to remind you of the time he thought it was a good idea to jump from a high tree because he thought it was the faster way down?”

Maglor gasped. “Don't joke about that, he nearly scared me half to death.”

But then Elrond was laughing, high content chortles. “Just shows that you care about us,” he points out. Maglors feels his soul soften. “Besides, it seemed like the tree appreciated me because it caught me in its branches before I fell!”

Elros rolled his eyes. “You're such a fool,” he says, but with no real maliciousness.

Everyone let out more chuckles, until Maglor’s belly hurt.

“Look! Maedhros is not even stirring from his sleep,” Elros pointed out. “Even with all our noise.”

Good. he thinks, then voicing it out loud. Centuries of torturous wakefulness rested on his shoulders. “He deserves it.”

“What do you think he is dreaming about?” Elrond inquires lightly, sliding a stray hair off of Maedhros cheek, from where it flaunted in the breeze.

In the first year of Elrond and Elros’ capture he invented memories for them, and dreams for him: a time when they were all together. A feast, a braiding ceremony, a quiet morning. But these are selfish things born of his own mind, things he fashions for himself because they cannot exist. Not for them. For all he knows, their own selfish daydreams are of a world where their real parents do not exist.

Now, he thinks to himself he does need to invent an entirely new world in the place of Elwing or Earendil. Maybe they could be together, without blood bonds. To be a family.

Wishful thinking. He smiles. Never had it felt so close. These fragments and illusion of joy.

“I think he is dreaming of you two,” he says. “Of your happiness.”

Elros looks at him quizzically, his hands growing still. Suddenly, the twins grew twin smiles.

“I think you're right,” Elrond grinned.

For a moment they sat there, barely concealing their smiles, basking in a tapestry of tranquillity.

Then he heard Elros yawn, his eyes blinking languidly, his chin drooping to the hem of his robe. Maglor’s eyebrows furrowed. “Are you tired Elincë?”

“No,” he clearly lied, considering how he was so droopy he did not snap at him for calling him such an endearment.

Elrond patted the space next to him. “Come lay next to me brother!”

Elros slowly shook his head. “I’m not sleepy!”

“Elrond is right, Elros. Actually, you should both get to sleep.” Maglor said, looking how Elrond’s eyelashes fluttered with weariness. “You have had a long day and night. Maedhros is already sleeping so we can't go back to camp. This is a good time to rest.”

“Will you keep watch over us?” Elros whispered. He seemed half asleep already.

“Of course,” he replied, pouring his heart into the vow.

He was stunned by how quickly they complied. Elros yawned once more, sinking down to lay on his back next to his brother. He tilted his legs so they would not hit Maedhros’s sleeping form. Elrond did the same. Leaning his head against the bark of the tree snugly placing his head further into the linen of his tunic. Craning his neck, it seemed like he was counting the stars.

“Are you all comfortable?” he asked. They hummed simultaneously in agreement. They reached their arms across the grass, hands threading through each other's fingers. Fondness was reaped from Maglor’s chest.

For a moment it was the only sound of crickets, dancing in the stalks of weeds. Then Elros said listlessly. “Mag?”

“Yes?”

“Can you sing us to sleep?”

Idle work. He knew he was a master at song, but why was that the word that came to mind? Why did he feel his heart clench at the idea of singing to anyone, let alone children?

Elrond's eyes shot open in a panic. “Please! You don't have to if you don't want to. We can just-”

“No,” Maglor protested, shutting them down. He took a deep breath. “I will sing you a lullaby. Anything in particular?”

It seemed like Elrond thought for a moment, brightening when he had an idea. “Maedhros said he liked your lullabies. His favourite one was May It Be. Can you sing that for us? Please?”

He stared at his slumbering brother. His brother liked that song? He remembered the days where all of his family's visages shone like liquid gold. He had sung all of his younger brothers and cousins to bed with the lullaby. He couldn't even count how many times he did so on his hand. Maedhros, being the eldest, always watched over them. Of course he would remember the song. He recalled he even mouthed the lyrics as he sang.

Pricks of tears stung at the corner of his cheeks. He wiped them away furiously, before the children could notice.

“Of course,” he says, nearly choking the words out. Something deep inside of him was brought forth. He places a hand on Elrond’s cheek, rubbing away some stray dirt that stuck to his skin. Elrond leaned into his touch.

For a moment he watched the twins wait, their eyes pleasantly shut. Trusting. Maglors hands shook as he leaned away and composed himself. Taking a trembling breath, he began to sing;

May it be an evening star

Shines down upon you

May it be when darkness falls

Your heart will be true

You walk a lonely road

Oh, how far you are from home

Mornië utúlië

Believe and you will find your way

Mornië alantië

A promise lives within you now

May it be the shadow's call

Will fly away

May it be your journey on

To light the day

When the night is overcome

You may rise to find the sun

Mornië utúlië

Believe and you will find your way

Mornië alantië

A promise lives within you now

A promise lives within you now

 

He opened his eyes, having closed them the entire time he had sung. The twins did so too. Elros had fallen asleep, clear by the steady way his form moved as he breathed. Maglor was glad they couldn't see the tear that fell across his face.

The last waking twin gave him a cheeky grin, but only warmth was held in his eyes. He returned the smile, and continued to hum the hymn that came so easily to him, like the pair had opened up an ocean of water, with no threatening waves.

“Thank you” he whispered, tucking dark brown hair behind his ear.
Just as Elrond floated off to sleep, he whispered, something so quiet that only Maglor could hear.

“Goodnight, Ada.”


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Just to let everyone know, I did NOT create the song Maglor sings at the end, that is a well-known elvish dong created by anirion on spotify, which you can find here! It inspired me to write this angle in the first place.

Elincë means ‘little star’ in quenya that Maglor uses as an endearment for Elros. I thought I would add in that cute little headcanon.

Again, thank you to @ununumtroissept for the artwork, I highly recommend you check them out on tumblr! Make sure to leave comments and kudos on fanfics that are in this event, they are brilliant.

Works inspired by this one:
a brief respite by rainforezt