TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
5 Times Aragorn Tried to Seduce Legolas, and The 1 Time It Worked	crewdlydrawn	2021-04-21	2021-05-26	19,982	6/6	50	603	105	8,770

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Explicit	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Hobbit (Jackson Movies), The Lord of the Rings (Movies)

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Aragorn | Estel/Legolas Greenleaf	Legolas Greenleaf, Aragorn | Estel, Elrond Peredhel, Thranduil (Tolkien), Haldir of Lothlórien, Original Side Characters - Character	5 Times, Post-Battle of Five Armies, Between The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings, Parts Jackson Canon & Parts Tolkien Canon, Wibbly Wobbly TimeLiney, Crushes, Teasing, Crack, Unrequited Crush, these will vary in length, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Aragorn wasn't raised in Rivendell, Reonciling Jackson canon with book canon, It's annoying, Time Skips, They're explained though, Sindarin, Quenya, Use of both languages is loose and just for flavor, However any names not sourced from canon DEFINITELY are intentionally formed, POV Multiple, but mostly Legolas, Flirting, Attempted Seduction, Anal Sex, Spit As Lube, Creative Lube, Oral Sex, Sloppy Makeouts

SUMMARY
Sure, nature is beautiful, all of Illuvitar's Earth a gift to Man's eyes--but this elf who's come to the Dunedain? He's the most striking gift Strider's eyes have ever been given.
Sent to assure a young ranger grows up well, Legolas is surprised to find his new charge more than ready to attach himself to the elf's side.

--Follows Legolas' POV from the close of tBotFA, through several encounters with young Aragorn, pre-FotR.--

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Chapter 1


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
For thewaynecondition.
I've never written Tolkien-verse before, and this isn't meant to be taken too seriously, but even so, attempts were made to stay as close to a sensibly canonical setting as possible when bridging these properties. Apologies in advance if it doesn't match others.


CHAPTER 1
Heart hurting over the decision, Legolas had attempted to be as cold as his father while telling him he wouldn’t return to their home.  As ever and always, he had been unsuccessful.  Conflict had surely been as clear on his features as it was in his veins, yet his voice had remained firm.  It would have ended there, his heart aching and his bones fatigued with little relief, and yet…

“Go north,” the king had said.  “Find the Dúnedain.” 

And north he went.  Minimal provisions and a name were all he carried, leaving horse and pack behind to allow the land and nature stretching between to soothe his distraught and battle weary soul.  A renewed sense of purpose and direction ferried him over plain and mountain, into the Northlands and their world of Men. 

Stories of the descendants of the Númenor abounded throughout Middle Earth, even in Thranduil’s secluded kingdom.  Legolas had been raised to know the world’s history, less to understand as to protect against predictable threats.  Secretly, unknown to his father, he had spent time away from lessons gleaming all he could from elders who had interacted with the older races of Men.  He knew to watch his steps when he reached the northern forests, that their senses, while not rivals to as his own, would be heightened enough to not be caught unawares, yet he remained confident. 

That confidence waned at feeling a blade against his neck in the same instant he smelled its forged metal approach. 

Having frozen his motion, Legolas slowly spread his fingers, displaying empty hands.  “I am not here to fight,” he announced.

“It would be wise, then,” a voice not belonging to the sword emerged from behind him, “to state your business, Elf of the Wood.”

Less than a second more, and the sword was in his hand, its owner beneath his knee, and three associates before him rather than behind.  “I will gladly do so,” words were punctuated by the sheathing of the tip of the sword into the supple earth beneath their feet, and Legolas released the man below him, “but on equal terms.”

Though tension reigned for several more breaths, it broke by way of a hearty laugh from the speaker.  “Come on then, Amondín,” he offered his hand to the man on the ground, who took it and dusted off his knees. 

Amondín, it was, turned to regard Legolas harshly for a moment more before taking up and sheathing his sword.  “Out with it, then.”

“I am Legolas, son of Thranduil, of the Woodland Realm.  I am looking for the Dúnedain, which I assume I have found.  I have business with your elders.”  Looks were exchanged, but as his father’s name was well enough known, little time passed before Legolas was brought with the men back to a camp.  It was simple, sparse, and utilitarian in its nature, obviously able to be packed up and taken along in minutes. 

Another half a day’s travel took the men and Legolas to a more established village, where he was able to introduce himself more properly.  Long before the boy was in his presence, Legolas was aware of the name ‘Strider’ on the lips of those around the village.  Not rumors, or ill-speak, but pride, as well as amusement.  His name was caught up in the very spirit of the place, a phenomenon Legolas had yet to experience elsewhere.

Thranduil’s name earned Legolas an audience with a trio of men who carried the responsibility of leadership.  When he asked about Strider, looks were exchanged without him, and information his father had not deigned to impart to him was shared.  The race of men were scattered, ever so much more the Rangers and their ilk, that much he knew already.  Their reign had ended, fallen apart, and their lineage dispersed.  With no line of kings, stewardship of Gondor was in stasis, perhaps permanently.  This young Ranger, however, was born of Arathorn II, son of Arador, and his true name was Aragorn.  If time were different, if Middle Earth were different, the boy might have grown to be a king, himself.

Despite his father’s missive that he should assure Strider’s proper raising, Legolas had not been told that Arathorn II had died.  Undoubtedly, Thranduil had known, but had simply not seen it as important.  As it was, the collaboration came between the three elders and Legolas, and it was decided that, like his father before him, Strider would spend the rest of his formative years with the elves, safe and further educated.  He was still quite young, even for human standards, but the second their eyes met, Legolas felt his soul must be much older than his face.

Those same eyes widened sharply enough to startled Legolas, once they landed on him.  In the oldest language of men, the boy swore, earning a sharp pull to his hair from his presenting elder.  Though Legolas found himself quite amused, his face showed no evidence. 

Further amusement came during a shared meal the next night. 

Strider sat close to him, leaning close enough to unsubtly sniff at his waybread.  “What is it?” the boy asked, reaching earth-stained fingers towards the elf’s food.

Reflexively protecting the cleanliness of his sustenance, Legolas smacked the back of the boy’s fingers.  There was no sound, and the swiftness of his movement would have left it undetectable by anyone else.  And at first, Strider only stared at the offended hand, not having drawn it back toward himself at all.  His gaze rose, however, accusingly, and somewhat incredulous.

“…Did you just hit me?”

Allowing only a single brow to twitch, Legolas glanced to the side before returning his attention to the bread.  “You have your own food.”  That statement was, of course, only so accurate—Strider had devoured his own portions almost as quickly as he had settled onto the ground near the fire.

“What is it, though?”  Those fingers edged close again, before he thought better of the movement and retracted them once more.

As a reward for the show of restraint, a small lesson learned, Legolas deigned to answer.  “It is called ‘Lembas’,” his tongue shifted on the native word before returning to the language of Men, “but you would hear of it as ‘waybread’.”

Showing no recognition on the Sindarin term, Strider brightened, nodding at the second.  “Waybread—it’s a very filling bread.  For travelling.”

“Very good.”

A flash of a smile showed the boy’s pride.  “I learn fast.”

“That is also very good.”

Self-assurance not flinching in the slightest, Strider turned curious again.  “Why is that?”

Swallowing the bite he’d taken, before slipping the rest of the bread back into its package of leaves for safe keeping, Legolas regarded the boy silently for a moment, to build proper tension and anticipation.  “Because if you try to touch my food again, you may find it quite impossible to do anything ever after.”

Even with his head turned away again, Legolas’ peripheral vision caught the boy’s widened eyes, as well as the ear-to-ear grin that followed them.  True to the custom of his people, Legolas would never turn away a mouth truly in need, even on his last crumbs.  He certainly also had no designs to hurt or kill the same boy he’d come all of this way to see.  It was a gamble of a tease, and it had landed perfectly.

“I’ll be faster, next time.”

With that, Strider was silently and quite suddenly gone from the space next to Legolas, and his amusement at the retort distracted him just enough from being able to track where he’d gone.  Lips turned up in a much smaller smile of his own, he was beginning to think he might just enjoy this assignment, after all, despite recent events.

That sentiment nearly came into question that night, with the village quiet, the night deep and dark, and Legolas settled on a bedroll the elders had insisted he use for the night.  He had kept himself separate, still, on the outskirts of the settlement.  And yet, quiet footfalls woke him while the stars were the only prominence above him.  Eyes still closed, he listened to the movement, swift and sure despite slinking through the dark, falling completely silent a few meters from his back. 

Recognizing the presence as Strider’s, he lay waiting, assuming he was after the lembas again. 

Not so.

In one smooth slide, a wiry frame found its way tucked up behind Legolas’ back. 

“I thought elves were cold…”

Legolas remained quite still.  “Living bodies create warmth.”

“Fish are cold…”

“Do I appear to be a fish?”  His tone rose at the end, though not so much as to betray annoyance he did not possess.  The boldness in Strider’s actions were startling, but Legolas longed for entertainment, something soft to happen, anything but war and death. 

“No, but—”

“You will learn much about elves soon enough.”  Even when it was asked of him, Legolas gave no more information.  “Go to sleep, hína.”  After a second’s thought, he added, “In your own bed.”

Though he sat up, a moment of silence delayed him.  “I’m not as young as you think I am,” Strider spoke softly, almost as if he was uncertain he wanted Legolas to hear, though there would have been little hope of hiding even the echoes of his breathing from sensitive ears.  Even the boy’s quickened heartbeat was of little secrecy.

Legolas could hear the frustration in his steps as Strider left him, but the boy could not see the smile that graced an otherwise impassive face as it settled to sleep.  Bold, indeed.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 2 TITLE
Chapter 2


CHAPTER 2 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 2
Deception was a stronger word than Legolas would have chosen for the situation, and yet it would be accurately applied.  The decision to remove Strider from his environment had been made without his knowledge or consent, though all involved were in agreement that it would not only be to his benefit, but that he would ultimately enjoy the change of scenery.  So it was that, under the initial guise of Strider introducing their elven visitor to the surrounding natural realm, Legolas and his new charge set off south and east, towards Rivendell.

Perhaps he could have stayed among the rangers longer, but while Legolas knew himself to be a fair enough role model for younglings in his home forests, he knew little of raising the children of Men.  Strider’s father had matured in the towers of Elrond’s city, under the elder’s watchful eyes, and Legolas trusted the same would befit the boy.  Besides, remaining a positive influence and a careful reflection on his own father was one thing, parenting was quite another.

Amondín saw them off, leading them away from the village, through the outer encampments, and clasping hands with Strider.

“Take care of our elvish visitor,” he cautioned Strider in jest, “these wilds are dangerous places.”  The two shared a laugh before the older turned away, leaving Strider alone with Legolas.

They had been started in an easterly direction anyway, which served his mission’s purpose.  Strider was animated in his explanations of the land around them, of land formations that were important to his people, places where events occurred, battles and injuries, deaths.  There was no break in the young boy’s voice at mention of his own father’s demise, nor at passing through the same outcroppings of rock upon which he had fallen.  Dirt-stained fingers touched down at the crown of the formation, a whispered string of honoring words strung out in a single breath, and the two moved on.

Movement stayed natural until Strider took his first sharper turn that would have led them back towards his home. 

“Why are we stopping?” the boy asked, having turned almost immediately when Legolas’ quiet footfalls had ceased behind his lead.  It was not an impatient tone, not concerned, but the question still held a noticeable weight.

Adjusting the straps of his quiver and pack, Legolas considered the eastern horizon, now diagonally behind his right shoulder.  He did not turn his head back when he spoke.  “Because we are not going back to the village.”

“You don’t want to see the rest of the land?”

Time for the truth, though Legolas thought he would have had a bit longer before needing it.  “That is not what we were meant to do.”

Back in Legolas’ line of sight, Strider was watching him closely.  “I know.”

Legolas considered him for a moment.  “You overheard?”

“No,” the boy began, hoisting himself up on a ledge to sit, his feet dangling freely, “but it makes the most sense, of anything.”  His shoulders lifted and dropped.  “Now I’m certain.”

“And where do you think I’m taking you?”

“Back to your people—to the elves of the wood.”  While not quite haughty, his voice took on a tone of pride.  “You must need the help of the Rangers for something important, to come all this way.”

An amused smile graced Legolas’ cheeks.  “The errand is important, yes, but not quite as you are assuming it.”  Leaving the boy’s suddenly confused and curious expression unanswered, Legolas turned his body eastward, speaking with finality.  “We are going this way.”

-----

If Legolas had been concerned about the boy slowing his progress across the varied terrain of the North, all such thoughts were erased once their trek began in earnest.  Less the distractions of a tour, of sites and locations to be seen and acknowledged, their pace quickened significantly.  While not entirely in a rush, Legolas tended not to prefer remaining out in the open for long periods, when alone, and especially so when in charge of someone whose importance had only barely been intimated to him.

For his part, Strider was a skilled hunter.  His people lived semi-nomadic lives, and he had benefitted from surviving in many different landscapes.  Taking it as a point of pride—or perhaps showing off—he gathered food whenever they needed it, supplementing the waybread.  Though Legolas was not, as a rule, dependent on consuming flesh, communing as such with Strider and encouraging his confidence superseded his regular diet. 

Contrary to that night in the village, Strider had stayed to his own bedding thus far.  Not aloof, certainly, as there still remained little empty space between them either waking or sleeping.  Legolas was keenly aware that Strider was watching him throughout their time and travel, whether he was obviously noticing or not.  Despite not being a stranger to that sort of attention, as the object of it, most of Legolas’ life had been defined by his existence as a prince of the wood—his father had yet to approve of any single source of such ‘attentions’ for his sole heir.  It was quite a foreign feeling to be the sustained recipient, and so singularly.

“Do elves cut their hair?” 

The question came so suddenly, just one day out from Rivendell, that Legolas paused his steps to lift a brow to the side at its source.  “Cut it?”

Strider nodded, taking the pause as an opportunity to pluck a sprig of berries from the side of the trail, leaning against the tree supporting its vine.  “Yeah…”  Mouth temporarily occupied, Strider sent his free hand combing through his own hair, holding out the near-shoulder-length ends once reached, for emphasis.  “If I let it,” he continued, bottom lip stained a faint mauve from his snack, “mine would grow much longer than this.”

“Why do you not let it?” Legolas countered, accepting the second sprig Strider plucked and held out in offering.  “Does it offend you?”

Having gone nearly cross-eyed trying to focus on the ragged ends between his fingers, Strider looked sharply up and over to him, needing to blink to adjust from the sudden shift.  The look was rather endearing.  “It doesn’t offend me.”  A moment passed while he tried to find the right words for his thoughts.  “I like that it sits here,” his empty hand, fingers straightened, cut the air at his shoulder, “so I keep it here.  Have you ever cut yours?”

“Naturally,” Legolas assured at first, popping a pair of the small berries past his lips.  Careful maneuvering and mindful chewing kept their staining juices away from his skin, in contrast to the continued purpling of Strider’s.  Nimble fingers gathered a length from behind his shoulder, avoiding the braid that ran from his temple.  “We tend it.” 

“Like trees?”

A softer smile played at the corners of Legolas’ mouth.  “I like that.  Yes,” he agreed, minding the ends of the strands, assessing, “like trees.”

Empty sprig tossed into the underbrush, Strider crossed the short space between them, a finger’s breadth from placing the dyed remnants of his snack on clean strands.  For the second time, Legolas swiftly and sharply smacked Strider’s hand away from its target.

“Am I not allowed to touch it?”  There was almost more surprise on the boy’s face than there was genuine curiosity. 

Lips pursed into a straight line at the lack of a lesson learned, Legolas took firm but gentle hold of Strider’s offending wrist, lifting it so that his tainted fingers were risen up between the two of them.  “If I wanted purple hair, I would already have it.”

Light grey eyes flicked back and forth between purple-tinted fingertips and the golden strands still hanging from Legolas’ thumb and forefinger.  Legolas could nearly see the calculations taking place behind their cold cloud-like surface.  Another moment, and a toothy grin split his features.  “So I am allowed, just not with dirty hands?” 

“No, that’s—”

But Strider was already reaching out his other hand, devoid of juice stains from having held the stem and not the fruit.  His movements were swift and steady, his eyes holding Legolas’ from equal height.  His hand closed over the strands, and also over the hand already supporting them. 

In the same moment as Strider’s eyes sparkled with mischief, Legolas dropped his left wrist entirely, stepping back and out of reach.  Out of reach, that is, save for the strands that did not make it out of Strider’s right hand in time.  Their roots tugged, and a frown dipped towards his chin.

While the grin on Strider’s mouth faded in intensity, his eyes remained alight.  There was amusement there, but something else joined along with it.  Still possessing the very ends of Legolas’ hair, Strider rolled them through his fingertips before leaning forward to kiss them, in apology. 

To his absolute horror, Legolas felt heat rise in his face. 

Why were Men so much more touchy?

“We keep going,” he dropped out evenly, turning away from Strider in the hopes of hiding any pink in his cheeks.

From the grin that stayed on Strider’s face near constantly the rest of the way to the Elven citadel, Legolas was quite certain he was unsuccessful.


CHAPTER 2 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 3 TITLE
Chapter 3


CHAPTER 3 INITIAL NOTES
[Full disclosure: though I've read the novels and seen all Jackson properties, I claim no expertise on timing nor detailed facts of the Tolkien lore. No corrections will be made if there are errors as such.]


CHAPTER 3
Not every day did royalty visit Rivendell.  Despite Legolas not having announced himself, Elrond’s scouts and guards had surely seen them coming, as they had not hidden their approach.  And so quite the welcome awaited Strider and him as their feet struck the bricked road that led up the bluffs along the falls. 

Amidst seasonally falling flower petals floating past their faces, the whipping sounds of banners carried through the wind, along with mid-toned horns announcing their arrival.  Elrond himself came to greet them, a clutched hand over his heart mirroring Legolas, a traditional greeting of honor.  Though from an elevated position among his own people, Legolas still inclined his head below Elrond’s, recognizing his elder.

“It is good to see you in peace, son of Thranduil.”  It was a warm expression that greeted him, softened eyes framed by dark hair. 

“My lord Elrond,” he deferred.  “Are my eyes deceived, or were you aware of my arrival before your scouts could possibly have spotted me?”

Elrond smiled, a closed line with a gentle curve.  “Word from your father preceded you.”  A robed arm swung toward Strider, a thin, russet brow arching in question.

If Legolas had expected his new charge to listen to the instructions he had been given along the road, that expectation was shattered the moment Elrond acknowledged his presence.

“I’m Strider,” the bold Man offered, stepping forward, in front of Legolas, to present himself hardly an arm’s length from Elrond’s feet.  At least there were two steps between them, still.  When Strider held out a steady hand towards the Peredhel, shocked forms stiffened on all sides. 

There was a twitch in Elrond’s expression, more unintended affect in his face than Legolas had seen in some time.  The slightest of motions of his fingers signaled for those around to settle, and he stepped down the rest of the way to stand on Strider’s level.  “It is good to meet you, Aragorn, son of Arathorn.”  His own hand reached out and took hold of Strider’s, clasping it firmly. 

Legolas could see from Elrond’s face that Strider had tightened his grasp in the same moment that he shook the contact up and down.  For another Elf to have touched him so, they would have needed to have been close kin, fully familiar, and, with his status, have had such contact initiated by Elrond himself.  The display was shocking; many pairs of eyes turned away.

Strider’s grin, however, made a spectacle of its own.  “Finally,” he half-laughed, “I thought you’d all be as stuck-up as this one.”  His head angled back and to the side, towards Legolas, who had to will his face to remain neutral.

“Our customs are different from those of Men,” Elrond offered simply. 

“Yeah, I’ve seen that.” 

Stepping forward, Legolas was mildly mortified to see the amusement on Strider’s face, despite knowing that Elrond would not be reading his mind.  Nothing scandalous had occurred, of course, no wrongdoing, and yet he found his heartrate destabilizing all the same.

-----

In general, Legolas held no distaste for Lembas, in fact he found it enjoyable enough as a traveling staple, but after weeks of nearly nothing else, he was grateful for the feast Elrond had set out for them.  It had only been two hours since their arrival, and yet Strider had seemed to make it his mission to introduce himself to every elf he could find.  Find, that is, and manage to keep around for more than a moment under the pressure of his peppering questions.  Somehow, all of the remaining preparations were completed despite the boy driving out most of those involved.

Once all was settled, there was a notable gap between Elrond’s end of the grand table—at which sat the elder himself, Legolas, Strider, and Haldir of LothLorien, visiting for a time—and the majority of Rivendell’s elite in attendance.  Almost as fascinated by the food as by the people, Strider spent more time examining the unfamiliar plants and fruits than he did eating them.  Legolas, on the other hand, took the opportunity to speak with Haldir.

It had been some time since he’d had first-hand news of Lórien, and their common Silvan tongue exchanged with the speed of comfortable ease.  While Haldir was aware of the struggles to the North, his own news was far more pleasant.  Lady Galadriel was recuperating from her efforts to aid Gandalf, and her refuge in the forest remained peaceful, a place of power.  The orcs and wargs that had plagued the borders of Mirkwood had not yet spread themselves further South.  His heart was warmed to hear of their celebrations, the traditions their peoples both shared.  Though he had needed to leave his father behind, to distance himself from their losses, their outward battle and inward struggles, he missed his home, even so recently left.

When he finally got back to focusing on his own food, and less on conversation, Legolas caught sudden sight of Strider, across the table from his seat, staring openly at both he and Haldir.  If he were reading the expression correctly, it was the same look Strider had given Legolas upon first meeting him.  Thankfully, lord Elrond broke the trance the boy had gotten himself into by addressing him.

“Had your father taught you of our ways, young Aragorn?”  A soft voice, meant only for the ears at their secluded end of the table.

A breath passed between the broken staring spell and Strider clearing his throat to speak.  “I was young when he died, just a little thing, really.”

Nodding, Elrond set aside his plate.  “I suspected so.  There will be much for you to learn, while you are here.”

Strider sat back in his chair, shoulders squared against its high back.  “Did he speak it?”

“The language of the Sindar?” Elrond breathed in the tongue of his ancestors.  “Yes, he did.”

Strider’s eyes narrowed for a moment, before flicking between Elrond and Legolas.  “That was different from what they were speaking.”  His head angled toward Haldir.

Regarding the boy, head tilted, Elrond smiled, and then let out a solid laugh.  “You have never heard either, and yet you distinguish them?”

For his part, Strider appeared dumbfounded.  “They’re different,” he reiterated, as if it were the most obvious observation he could possibly make.

With the repetition, more of those around them overheard the exchange, and joined the elder’s hearty laughter in their own.  Haldir let out his own short chuckle.  “Truly, amazing.”

Though the rest of the meal continued on its way, Strider remained confused about the amusement through to its end.  Quiet reflection typically followed a gathering meal, but with Legolas’ arrival, there was music, and there was dancing.  There was also an abundant supply of wines from the South, with which Legolas was firmly familiar. 

Legolas chose to take the opportunity to realign his senses by dulling them—to the best of his ability, of course.  Most of the fare traded through Rivendell was hardly strong enough to down an Elf, but there were exceptions.  Consulting with Haldir led them both to a small collection of Elven wines, made of sterner stuff than those fermented by Men.  Elrond had taken the boy with him, to sit and to talk, alleviating Legolas’ responsibility long enough to allow him to drain two bottles with his friend.

Flute, string, and voice drowned out the rush of the falls, even from the edge of the promenade’s ledge.  Conversation with Haldir had devolved into something quite less eloquent than it had begun, and the stacked stones creating a barrier between those above and a steep, sharp drop took more and more of the effort to keep Legolas straight up on his feet.  Under normal circumstances, he would have chided himself for missing the moment in which Haldir was replaced as his nearest companion with Strider, and in fact he still felt chagrin. 

Lively notes surrounded them, a quickened rhythm, and even as Legolas noted a hand clasped around his upper arm, he was being pulled back from the rocks, across the flat stones beneath them, and into a circular pattern led by Strider. 

“What are you doing?”  The question was completely unnecessary, as he was well aware that he had been absconded to a dance, but indignation bubbled forth regardless.

Not bothering to reply, Strider kept one hand grasping one of Legolas’, the other on his waist, his own body close as their surroundings spun first one direction, and then the other.  Legolas kept his feet, in no true danger of falling, yet his fingers still curled over Strider’s, their counterparts full of the folds of his sleeve.  An unexpected dance was still a dance, and though not in the manner he was used to, he was loath to completely pass it up.  They were hardly alone, as few Elves stayed still during lively songs, and yet Legolas could not help but feel that they were making a spectacle.  Strider was the only Man among them, and, due to his excessive friendliness, was already standing out.

Minutes passed before their motion slowed, music still swirling through the air along with laughter and conversation.  At last they paused, much farther from the majority of the gathering than they had started.  Beginning to re-straighten his clothing, Legolas was just distracted enough to be unable to compensate as he was steadily backed up, beneath a set of arches, and eventually found his back bumping up against a pillar.  That pillar was, he quickly noted, out of eyesight from anyone else gathered outside.  

Warmth already flooded his veins, tingling over his body from head to toe, and Strider’s sudden proximity, his heated breath close enough to hit Legolas’ skin, caused unfamiliar feelings to stir in his core.

Before he could voice a complaint or comment on the actions, Strider had closed the already minimal distance between them, the tip of his nose brushing Legolas’ as he pressed him back toward the pillar’s cool stone surface.  The smell of wine was on that hot breath, the tint of it lining moistened lips, and as he thought on those facts, Legolas could feel the skin of his face begin to warm, again, unbidden.  If he had felt intoxicated before, it was nothing like now.

Nerves that had moments ago been alight suddenly silenced, a half of a heartbeat passing in the void before warm, stubble-lined lips enclosed over his own.  Like the fermented drink, the contact warmed his mouth, his throat, his chest, and continued down into his belly.  He met the steady pressure in kind, finding their mouths fitting together all too easily.  A heady rush took over his mind, hands grasping at the thick material of Strider’s borrowed evening clothes, short coarse hairs chafing his chin, the taste of Strider’s wine, a different bottle than his own, upon his tongue as it was joined by another.

It took that rush of heat descending, bloodflow shifting to accommodate excitement he had not permitted his body to encourage, for his senses to come back to him. 

In a flash, their bodies had switched places, Strider’s back against the pillar, with a shaky hand pressed flat against his chest to hold him at arm’s length.  The sudden distance did nothing to abate the burn of friction still stinging pale cheeks.

Eyes as grey as the havens his kind would never see bore question and uncertainty as Legolas met them.  Only for a moment, and with no answers to quell their query, and Legolas no longer trusted his control over his own actions. 

Without a word, he left Strider alone under the arches, heading swiftly out of the structures towards the precipice of the falls—if not to dunk his body under the cold and sobering spray, to at least exchange the sting of its mist for stolen sensations he ought not to have allowed.


CHAPTER 3 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 4 TITLE
Chapter 4


CHAPTER 4 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 4
Three days passed before Legolas allowed himself within sight of Strider.  Instead, he spent his time in the higher elevations above the falls, reorienting, centering.  The air was clearer the higher he went, and he let it flow over him, through him.  Eru’s beauty always calmed him.

That calm was tested the moment he was in the same space as Strider.

Bright light streaming in beams through the latticework roof, he almost didn’t realize whose silhouette was in front of him as he emerged that fourth morning.  Strider was cleaner than he’d likely ever been, and clean-shaven.  He turned, and in that early diagonal light, his features could have almost looked Elven.  Almost.

Dark hair drawn back with a single clasp, leaving its length falling in soft waves over his shoulders, sharp cheekbones were perfectly framed as he smiled in greeting.

No, Legolas admonished himself, stop.

“Where’ve you been?” accompanied the almost dopey grin.

“I have been here.”

Strider touched his hands behind the small of his back, though the effect mat as well have been a more judgmental hands-on-hips display.  “But where?”

Eager to shift the interrogational energy away, he deflected, “I see you have been fitted for more suitable clothing.”  It was a barely-there smile he received in return, more a wisp than a full beam. 

One long leg kicked out dramatically to the front and side, Strider watching as the bottom panel of his split-robe flashed and flared outward, its silver brocade catching the filtered light and softening its violent motion.  Elven-made fabrics could never be fully separated from the nature from which they were borne.  Even on Men, their fibers retained their source, acknowledged their purpose.

“Do you like them?”  The wisp began to widen.

“They suit you.”  It was all he was willing to offer, though Strider appeared to interpret more from his words than he intended to impart to them.  “How are you finding Rivendell?”  Hands behind his own back, Legolas put himself in motion, striding through shafted columns of bright and dim on his way toward an ivy wall.  More concentration than necessary went into regarding its patterns and growth.  “Elrond was instrumental in raising your father, in his formative years, your grandfather, as well.”

“How old is he?”  Amusement lilted Strider’s voice, and he joined Legolas at the other end of the ivy.

Allowing a quiet chuckle, remembering the lives of Men, even longer-lived Númenor, were a raindrop amidst the raging storm when compared with the Elves.  “Quite more than I am.”  In his peripheral, Strider had raised his hands to touch the leaves, a surprisingly light gentleness for all of his dirt and Earth-born grime.  “Ask him about the legends of Men, when the timing seems right,” he advised, “he knows them well—he was there.”

Dark brows rose, and Legolas could see questions forming behind his eyes.  To his credit, he did not voice them right then.  It was for the best; Legolas could set the stage for such histories, but it was on Elrond to share his own experiences, his place to guide Strider through his education.  It was on Legolas to ensure that it occurred. 

That was the role that he took on in the coming weeks, facilitator.  He kept his distance, as much as Strider made that possible.  No more being caught alone, he limited his own wine consumption, and he kept Haldir by his side during quieter hours, when he was available.  As a plan, it was working, though he could feel the pull of tension from Strider every time that sharp gaze cast his way.

If he worried whatever tether Strider had attached to him would snap or recoil, he was spared its disaster for the moment when a messenger arrived with word from an outpost of Greenwood Elves.  While he could have delegated, sent others, they were his kin, and he could not ignore the urge to step away from Rivendell with a solid reason.  Pushing the reaches of technicalities, he had fulfilled his father’s missive by bringing Strider to Rivendell, but to follow such logic to further conclusions was, he knew, akin to running away, and that he would not do.  Rather, in full control of his body and mind, he requested the aid of three of Elrond’s scouts.

Strider met him in the stables.

“And here I thought you travelled on foot, only,” the boy quipped, running well acquainted fingers down the mare’s nose as Legolas prepared her tack.

“I prefer it,” Legolas sent over his shoulder before hoisting the sleek saddle replaced his voice.  “But, now, haste is needed.”

Tenderly holding the horse’s chin and jaw while Legolas finished, Strider whispered to her, his voice soft, his words indistinguishable from the hum he accompanied with them.  Leaving for a moment to finish the traveling packs, he returned through the entryway and paused.  Forehead pressed to hers, Strider was singing to the mare, his voice low, deep, and rumbling like the rocks behind the falls.  Legolas found himself momentarily captivated by the simplicity of the moment, struck by the synergy and familiarity on display.  Loath to break its spell, he nevertheless was flanked by his three scouts, and approached as they all mounted. 

“Ride swift,” Strider murmured, patting the mare’s neck.  His eyes flicked up to meet Legolas’, and the same message was visibly repeated there, though, much to the elf’s chagrin, with additional meaning. 

Time away would definitely be just what he needed.

---

Some weeks were spent away, helping his kin.  Fell creatures were beaten back, hunted out to their lairs, to be certain they would not regroup and return.  Rebuilding efforts were overseen and completed.  Celebrations of kinship raised spirits along the way.  All of which were simpler things for Legolas to process—his needs were known, his responsibilities simple, and his relationships firmly and clearly defined.  He felt cleansed by the time their group was set to return to the citadel.

Despite the return ride being less rushed, the scouts that had come with Legolas rode on ahead as they came within hours of Rivendell, leaving Legolas to bring up the rear on his own.  It was a clear road that greeted him, that is, until hoofbeats met him around the second to last bend on his way.

“Haldir!”  Legolas called out, slowing his mare to a smoother walk.  “Mellonín… is all well?”  Haldir was steadily approaching him on the road, his horse packed for a journey.  Last Legolas had known, he had planned to remain in Rivendell for the entire season; this was quite an early leave.

Normally stoic save for bright eyes, Haldir looked tired as he at last pulled side by side with him, haggard.  Slowing his ride, but not completely stopping his motions, Haldir met his gaze steady and deep.  “I have to get away from here,” he spoke as if faced with some sort of enemy presence.

Reaching out, Legolas took gentle hold of Haldir’s reins where they met his bridle, stilling his stallion and drawing them side-by-side.  “What has happened?”  Concern creased his features.

At his insistence, Haldir almost laughed.  His smile, however, was a rueful one.  “Nothing, friend.”  Shaking his head, he let out a slow breath.  “And quite a lot.”  With a turn towards the citadel, he took back the reins from Legolas’ hand.  “That boy,” he began, and Legolas found himself simultaneously amused and anticipatorally exhausted.

“Strider?”

Rather than reply outright, Haldir leveled a stare his way that might have flattened less prepared persons. 

“What did he do?”

“That weariness in your tone, my friend, knows more than you do.”  Waved off by Legolas, Haldir continued.  “He is relentlessly in contact… his—his hands.”  Shock must have registered enough on Legolas’ face, as Haldir shook his head.  “Not like that, not…”  Better words were considered before they were released in a rush to rival a river’s termination.  “He leaves no space.  His shoulder is always against mine, his hand does not mind itself, nor mine, he stands too close, and he…”

When he did not continue on his own, Legolas pressed.  “He what?”

“He hugs me.  Elrond.  Everyone.” 

There was horror on Haldir’s face, but rather than share it in his own, it took all of Legolas’ effort not to belt out a loud laugh.  Objectively, it was bad for Strider to breach cultural protocols, and Haldir was definitely not enjoying the effect those actions were having on him, that much was clear.  However, Legolas found himself, against all odds, wishing he had witnessed the absolute chaos that such behavior would have wrought. 

And, it was definitely less horrifying when it wasn’t happening to him.

With that thought, however, he realized that, once he returned to the citadel, it most definitely would.

A dozen paces past him before he even spoke again, Haldir had taken advantage of his distraction.  “Farewell, friend… and be careful.”

No boy was waiting to sing to his mare, this time.  Legolas was able to brush and cool down his ride in peaceful quiet, before setting her off with the rest of the steeds in the stables.  Even knowing he definitely needed a good clean-up himself, he remained down below the main towering structures of the citadel, watching the horses and their movements for a time, finding evening’s growing dusk surrounding him before he made his way towards his rooms.

His riding companions had gone ahead, which meant he did not need to worry about announcing his return.  Their presence would do that well enough on its own.  So it was not quite sneaking around when he kept to the shadows, the walls, and the outer stairways as he made his ascent.  It was, however, a perfectly conscious attempt to use the situation to his advantage and arrive at his bath without encountering anyone.

Well used to bathing in streams and pools in the forest, it was a particular luxury to fill the circular tub with heated water from boilers deep below the falls.  Sinking into it, Legolas made quick work of lathering and rinsing the dirt of riding off of his skin and out of his hair so that he could clear the water and bask in the warmth for a few minutes.  At last, he dunked under all of the way before climbing out. 

Only a toweling cloth was wrapped around his waist as he stepped into the bedchamber.  This was a fact he immediately regretted.

Sitting on the edge of his bed, thankfully more dressed than he was, if only by the technicality that he was wearing actual clothing, was Strider.  His light, soft sleep pants were not accompanied by a shirt of any sort. 

“Took long enough,” he admonished, a toothy grin flashing in the moonlight as he drew his hair up and back away from his face.  Clean locks sifted through slender fingers, their opposites on his other hand splayed on the bed’s surface beside him.  “Your hair is longer when it’s wet.”

“Strider…”

“They’ve taken to calling me ‘Estel’, now.  And yes,” rising, he closed half of the distance between them, “I know that it means ‘hope’.”

Legolas took a step back, in reply to the advance.  “It does,” he confirmed.  “Has Elrond spoken to you?”

Half the distance, once again.  “About many things.  It seems we both come from kings.”

“We do.”

That grin returned, and Strider—Estel—was within a pace of him, once more.  “It could hardly be so inappropriate, then, could it?” 

When it seemed Strider was about to reach for the edge of his towel, Legolas dodged the motion by stepping to the side, turning, and swiftly putting a half dozen paces between them once again.  “I am indeed a prince, and you may one day be king,” his jaw closed around his words, and he had to work it back into motion, “but you must stop this.”  It was a condescending tone that creeped into his mouth, but he was not in a position to correct it.  “You are young, yet, younger than you realize, and it is not my place to become involved.”

“Is that all that’s stopping you?”

There was no storm in those grey eyes.  There was a fog of hope, of desire, and a not insignificant measure of uncertainty.  The last was something that, all things being equal, Legolas would hate to break open.  However…

“You must stop.”  Keeping the toweling cloth in place, he pointed towards the interior door.  “Leave, now.  I will speak to Lord Elrond in the morning about my continued place here.”

Half a step forward, and that storm began to brew, after all.  He left without another word, and Legolas, having felt tranquil after his bath, took himself to rest on a bed of turmoil.


CHAPTER 4 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 5 TITLE
Chapter 5


CHAPTER 5 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 5
Estel was persistent, but he was not a brute.  If his advances were truly unwanted, stronger than a simple standing-on-ceremony ‘we shouldn’t’, then he was not going to be the one to force himself on another.

Even so, it pained him to know that he had such an effect on Legolas, only to be rebuffed so strongly.  In his mind, in his heart, he knew what he could have, and yet did not have it.

Waiting for the Elf in his room was his final play—there could be no misconstruing his desire, not misinterpretation of customs or cultures, not with what he had come to observe in Rivendell during the weeks Legolas was away.  It was certain; Elves desired one another as Men did, and while they were not as prone to touch and casual affection, there was no lack of passionate activity behind closed doors.  He knew.  He heard it.

There was little chance to hide much at all in the Northlands, especially in the Wilds away from established villages.  Well before he himself had matured, he was well aware of the men around him either taking care of their own needs, alone in their bedrolls, seeking the attentions of each other, or pairing off with women.  At times, there was any combination of the three, even if they weren’t aware that he was aware.  The same observant nature that was praised by his kin and community was a nature they at times regretted.

And yet, no one, in all two decades of his life before the Elven city, had caught his eye or stirred his body they way that Legolas had.  He had seen Elves before, in passing, and in travel; their features and forms were not unknown to him.  Yet this one, this particular Elf, this one was surely the most beautiful of all of Illuvitar’s creations.  How could he not be? 

Estel wanted him more than anything he had yet to know.  Nothing had ever been as frustrating as watching those blindingly bright blue eyes widen in shock, in concern, to hear his breathing change, to know that his heart skipped beats as his pupils dilated, to have known, if not with empirical proof, that he had made him hard beneath his washtowel, and yet to leave the room with nothing given nor gained. 

Legolas could not stay in Rivendell forever.  His people needed him, as well, and Elrond had firmly taken control of Estel’s guidance.  Less than a season’s span, and he was once again gone.  While he bid Estel farewell, Legolas had made sure that they were not alone, that there were no chances for him to try anything.  He wouldn’t have, but he certainly had thought about how to do it.

After his given horse was out of sight around the bluffs, Estel had waited too long to return back inside—a light-resting hand clasped over his shoulder, and he turned to find Elrond behind him. 

“It is not the last you will see of him,” the Elder offered, giving an encouraging squeeze from his fingers.  When Estel merely sighed, Elrond offered him a condoling smile.  “Your affection is quite clear, young one.”

There was little point in mincing words.  “He’s beautiful.”

“He is descended from striking genetics, indeed.”  Elrond nodded in all sincerity, not in the least teasing or mocking Estel for his attraction. 

That was intriguing.  “His parents are that beautiful, too?”

Elrond chuckled, leading him back towards interior rooms.  “Oh yes,” he spoke with weight, “his mother was soft-featured, her hair a deep gold.  And his father, King Thranduil, is commandingly tall, with hair longer than his son’s, full, dark brows, and stern, cold features that are crisp in any light.”

“Sounds like you have affection for him…”

“We have known each other for a very long time,” was all the response Estel gained for his probing tease.  He decided for himself that, somewhere along the way, sometime in the past thousands of years alive in Middle Earth, Elrond and Thranduil had fucked.

---

There was much to learn in Rivendell.  While Estel had had enough exposure to differing dialects to distinguish between Silvan and Sindarin, he had not, of course, possessed any sort of vocabulary in either tongue.  Elrond sought to change that, and succeeded.  A quick study when applied, he gained fluency by immersion—within the next year, he was able to converse easily and fluidly with all those present in the citadel.

It took more time for him to speak like the Elves, to hold himself like the Elves, to walk and eat like the Elves.  Dressing in their style of robing had only made him appear so much like he belonged there.  That could not have come simply by immersion, but through intention.  He had to learn to want to behave differently, to want to present himself in a manner other than simply a boy sprung from the wilds.  Of course, that boy would always be present, always be from where he had come, but he came to learn how to also be someone else.

Through that teaching, he grew further into his adulthood.  To the Elves, he would always be young, always a different sort of existence in life to not be able to experience the longevity of their kind, but he grew nonetheless.  His thirties came and went, adding breadth to his face, his shoulders, the muscles and the shapes of his frame.  Four decades, and he became not just educated but wiser, as well. 

Elrond’s children, though somewhat resistant to the idea for some time, became companions for Estel, eventually.  Elladan and Elrohir made for lively discussion and debate partners, Arwen a ready companion for excursions on horseback.  They, as well as Elrond, continued to teach and guide him through his fiftieth year.  It was then that he truly felt the call of his true home, and decided to leave his adopted kin.

Without haste, he bid his farewells to the citadel and its people, promising Elrond that he would not, indeed that he could not, forget the lessons and manners of being that had been bestowed upon him. 

“There will come a day, Estel of Rivendell, Aragorn of the North,” the Elder began, hands bracketing Estel’s shoulders, “when you will be king, leading the Men of Middle Earth, and ushering a time of peace.”  A smile echoed between them; this message had been given to Estel too many times to count over the years.  “Just once more, for now,” he assured.

He did not leave empty-handed.  From Elladan and Elrohir, a strong bow and a quiver filled with freshly fletched arrows. 

“For better hunting,” they assured him.

From Arwen, an intricately forged and filigreed clasp.

“For errant hair,” she explained, demonstrating by gathering much of his waves into its grasp. 

From Elrond himself, a blade of Elvish steel. 

“A placeholder,” he spoke with weight, resting the weighty scabbard across Estel’s open receiving hands.  “For better tools to come.”

All were accepted with gratitude, and with one final gift of a stallion with whom he had bonded more recently, he headed back to the Northern wilds.

---

Predominantly untouched by the battles in which he and his kin had fought, the green of Mirkwood welcomed the return of Legolas with open boughs. 

He took his time meandering through the outer woods, all triggering alarms well enough known to him to be able to avoid detection before he was ready to announce himself.  These trees were old, full of knowledge of events witnessed, times experienced, and the best ways to weather storms of the ages.  Sharing space in their presence was like communion, allowing their energy to affect his own.  It was more than calming, deeper than relaxing, and more rejuvenating than he realized until his shoulders felt the lightening of a load they hadn’t been properly registering.

So much had happened in two short years, and yet these woods were unchanged.  Certainly, there was evidence—a stray nick of a sword or axe here, an arrow’s piercing through rough bark healing over there—but the look and feel, the scent of the forest in which Legolas had grown and matured was the same as it always had been.  Deep breaths soothed his soul, helping bolster him to go before his father.

“I did not expect you, now,” filtered down through the winding, open stair well before Legolas could catch sight of Thranduil’s billowing robes.  Ever morose, his tone was nonetheless more settled than when they had last spoken. 

Laying his trappings at the base of the first staircase, Legolas made a point of smoothing his tunic before climbing them.  He was still more than a dozen paces short of his goal when he was told to stop.  “Am I no longer welcome, Father?”

A deep chuckle echoed through the open chamber.  “You are welcome, of course, yonya.” 

Smile playing at his lips, Legolas leaned a shoulder against one of the few stabilizing pillars that ran along the ascending path.  “Sentimental,” he accused.

“Oh, hardly.”  Standing from his antler-latticed throne, the Elf king occupied himself with a silmë moth.  The small creature crawled over elegant fingers, the lazy beating its luminescent wings sending slow, spiraling shockwaves of glittering dust into the air around pale skin.  By effect, Thranduil’s hand and lower arm appeared to sparkle in a soft blue light.  “Am I no longer allowed to address my son?”

Skipping the inevitable next few steps in such an exchange, Legolas instead turned to the logical business at hand.  “The Ranger has settled at Rivendell,” he reported.

“I am aware.”  Whispering something unintelligible from their distance, Thranduil set the moth to flight with a careful jostling of his fingers.  One last encouragement, and away it went, leaving a trail of flickering light in its wake.  “The Peredhel will see to it he is guided.”  Brushing away lingering dust from his fingers, the king regarded him.  “You were longer than anticipated.”

Allowing his eyes the barest of narrowing, Legolas took stock of his father’s stoic features, more than well enough aware that what could be seen any given moment, even to his own closest kin, was a façade.  There would be no clues to his hidden meanings to be found in his cheeks, his nostrils, nor his eyes.  What lay behind them was rot, and behind that, a calculating mind whose mercurial nature left it best left unprovoked. 

“I aimed only to assure your instructions were successfully carried out.”

Sharp eyes occupied themselves with the winding wood that surrounded the ornate throne, but Legolas was keenly aware that that gaze was still surreptitiously focused on him.  “You were not found to spend more time with the Ranger than necessary?”

Jaw tightening, Legolas exhaled.  “As I said, I aimed only to assure your instructio—”

There was no time to finish his sentence, as half a heartbeat later, his father’s face was in front of his own, filling his vision, bumping the tip of his nose in its proximity.  Electricity flashed lightning blue in those eyes.  To most, the move would cause a backwards stumble at the least, fear and panic, or perhaps a complete collapse from the conscious world, at worst.  Legolas, however, was far too familiar with the view.

Rather than backing down, he met the Elf king’s stare in kind, his own gaze steady with practiced ease.  “I have done nothing worthy of your rebuke, your highness.”  In its form, the honorific was every bit a retort as it was a title of respect.

“Yet,” Thranduil over-enunciated, “perhaps.”

With an indulgent smile one might have expected to be made in the opposite direction, Legolas repositioned several strands of hair that had flown up and over the points of king’s crown, smoothing them back into place.  “Then I suppose we will just have to wait.”

Though it would never have been spoken, Legolas could have sworn there was a flash of respect through Thranduil’s gaze.

---

If Legolas properly occupied himself, it might seem as if nothing had significantly changed for the Greenwood.  The simple things, the timeless things, surrounded him with ease, and decades passed, falling to the forest floor like a season’s spent leaves.  Decades, after all, in such an eternal wood, as to the Elves within them, were nothing much at all. 

Peaceful times, however, were not nearly as occupying as the turmoil that came before them.

Forty years, despite half the life of a Man, were hardly a fraction of the life Legolas had already lived.  In fact, it was the very knowledge that half the life of a Man had passed that had him itching to encounter different scenery.  Having been so glad to have been home, he yet found himself set for a journey out of the woods. 

North.

Mountains were calling him, their clear air, the cleansing nature of the snow.  Two days of riding brought him to the lower reaches of Mount Gundabad, in the range of Angmar.  He was alone, he and Lórnef, a stallion he had raised from the moment he had dropped as a newborn foal, and yet there was no loneliness.  Both of them, despite having been born and raised in the warmth, seclusion and insulation of a closed canopy and a dense underbrush, were equally as unbothered by the crisp, cold air of windswept peaks.  Together, they kept shelter in a cluster of ever-leafed trees, passively eyeing a stormfront winding its way across the back of the mountain passes. 

That storm settled there for two days, not quite reaching them, but providing gentle snowfalls along the cliffsides.  Though he had planned to head back out of the mountains, to the other side of the pass, before so long, Legolas could admit to himself that breathing the refreshed air for a little longer was certainly not a problem.  As it turned out, that timing would prove important.

As Lórnef and he were navigating the descent from Gundabad’s lesser peaks, a speck amongst the snow, below, caught his attention.  Pausing to sharpen his view, Legolas felt his eyes widen, and he urged his steed to hurry along their way down, making quick switchback moves until they were within reach of the figure.

Bidding his friend to stay put, Legolas slid fluidly down from his seat, boots making no sound even on impact with the powdered buildup of snowfall beneath them.  There was movement, ahead, but it was slow, far too slow to properly exit the pass.  Treading silently across the windswept ground, Legolas called out before he was within arm’s—or weapon’s—reach. 

“Do you need help?”  Noting the figure’s weight bearing into the snow, Legolas opted for Westron, safe in the assumption he had not encountered another wayward Elf so far north.

Tension that Legolas had assumed been due to the cold and wind eased out of the shoulders before him, and the figure turned.  “Not now,” came a familiar, if deepened voice.  “Now that I know you are no Orc.”

Estel.  There was no mistaking him, even behind the rougher beard, and smile lines beginning to crinkle around his eyes.  Those same eyes appeared tired, and frost had made its home in his beard, his brows, and the edges of his hair.  He had been out on the mountaintop for far too long.

“Though I admit, mellonín,” a grin grew behind the words, though its lips were purpling in hue, “I would not have needed help, then, either.”

His bravado was short-lived, and quick elven reflexes were all that kept Estel’s body from crushing down into the snow drifts. 

“You are too cold,” Legolas warned, the wind around them kicking up sharply and threatening to steal his words.  Without any more attempts to fight the sound, Legolas hoisted Estel across his shoulders, one arm and one leg grasped firmly in front of him as he bid Lórnef to follow them out of the open exposure.  A steady string of reassurances accompanied them as Legolas moved out of the wind and towards an overcropping of rocks, despite the fact he was certain Estel was no longer conscious enough to hear them.

From beyond the shelter of a seasonally-formed cave walled in more by snow than by stone, the storm had shifted once more to envelope the pass.  Had he ridden straight down, Legolas would have passed out of it before it caused him trouble, but then he would not have found Estel, who would have been overcome completely.  Questions and chastising lectures abounded in his mind while he built a swift fire, positioning Estel’s body close to its warming flames.  All would have to wait until he could actually talk to the man.

Frost clinging to his skin having melted, Estel was still shivering in his exposure-induced sleep.  Bidding Lórnef to come closer, to kneel with them, Legolas stripped most of Estel’s snow-soaked clothing, shifting his shaking body between the stallion’s warm coat and his own tucked-up form.  Between the two of them, warmth would eventually have to seep into his body.

Legolas must have fallen into a much more peaceful version of slumber, himself, before that occurred, as it was Estel’s voice that awoke him some time later. 

“Thank you,” was almost more murmured than it was spoken, but it was enough to rouse the light sleep.

Propping up on his dirt-leaning elbow, Legolas reached the opposite hand to feel Estel’s cheeks, his neck, searching for satisfactory temperatures.  The sensation was not where it should have been, but it was a far sight better than before the fire and contact.  As if confirming his thoughts, Estel drowsily took hold of Legolas’ wrist, drawing his arm back down and over his torso, where it had been, to secure their bodies in rest.

“You stay right there,” came the faint command before he once again drifted off.

Above them, Lórnef snorted quietly, and Legolas was keenly aware he was being hustled, at least in part.  True, Estel was asleep again, but the extra contact would not make much difference other than to satisfy his attractions. 

“I know,” Legolas offered to the stallion, receiving a nuzzle over the top of his head in reply.

It took two more hours for the body between them to feel safely warmed through.  Rolling him from the shoulder, Legolas left Estel’s back, performing much more efficient maintenance on their fire than he had been able to accomplish from his previous angle.  Rustling behind him as he finished off the cone of splintered pieces alerted him to his wakeful company.

“How do you feel?” he queried over his shoulder, poking at the lower coals with a still-damp stick, raising his eyes to take stock of the saturation of snow in view out of their cove.  Wind had died down, and there were stars visible in the darkened sky, between travelling clouds.  They would need to spend the night in shelter, but would be safer doing so.

Behind him, groans accompanied the shifting shuffle of Estel stretching his body, repositioning.  Lórnef’s huff told Legolas that he had been leaned against without express permission, but the move seemed to be tolerated.  “Warmer,” Estel confirmed, already watching Legolas closely when he at last turned to face him, standing upright. 

“At last.”

Though the line of his mouth remained tame, Estel’s eyes sparkled in the firelight.  “Would have gone faster, skin-to-skin.”

Legolas knew when he was being provoked, but being aware and being protected were unfortunately two separate states.  Unaffected by the fire, by close proximity to flame and coal, pale cheeks pinked at Estel’s implication.  It was awful, the betrayal of his own skin, his own nerves, unable to obey his own commands in the face of this one Man.

“Thank you, my friend.”  No comment was made on the flushed skin, no smirk curled beneath the beard, and though mischief ever resided within silvery irises, sincerity took up space there, alongside.

“Is that what we are?”

Threads of doubt fractured into the steely calm in Estel’s eyes for the first time in Legolas’ witness, and a pang of guilt stretched through him.  A heavy head rested itself on Estel’s shoulder, and fingers at last free of the traces of a freeze soothed down the stallion’s nose, acknowledging the comfort for what it was.  “I had assumed at least that,” turning his gaze from Legolas, Estel shushed and murmured quietly to Lórnef, his words forming the same near magic he had witnessed in Rivendell’s stables. 

Long white ears shifted to capture every rise and fall as Estel began to sing.  Gentle swishes of the stallion’s long tail echoed in the small space, joining the fire’s hisses and crackles as an uneven backdrop beat for the deep voice filtering through the air.  Years had mellowed it, not unkindly, and despite himself, Legolas was transfixed.

Perhaps he had been fooling himself.  Men were as equally from Eru’s hand as Elves, their forms as perfect as all of direct creation, and there was certainly precedent for their joinings.  Rivendell’s Elder himself, after all, descended from the collision in lineage of Man and Elf.  Watching him then, his form filled out, his chest broadened and strong, his eyes set deeper with experience and knowledge, Legolas could no longer see him as merely a boy.  He was a man, grown, and the reasons for which he held himself at bay were burning away like so much kindling.

Keeping Lórnef’s long face between them, Legolas settled himself against the horse’s chest, handing over Estel’s shirt and tunic, which had since dried by the fire.  Though he took them, he chose not to don them.  Having been distracted in his own thoughts, Legolas suddenly registered the sounds of Estel’s song.

“Is that Sindarin?” he asked, leaning his head against Lórnef’s neck.

Reaching the end of a verse, Estel let his voice fade.  “It is.”

“You learned it well.”

“I had the time.”

Speaking of time… “We will need to remain here for the night,” Legolas changed topics, striding away from the personal. 

“It will be much warmer if you share your skin.”  Estel had no such qualms.

Unyielding, Legolas at last sought answer to the question he had had no time for upon finding Estel in the snow.  “Why are you in this pass?”

A hum that felt indulgent issued from Estel, unseen on the stallion’s other side.  “I followed a pack of Orcs from a village in the valley,” he explained.  “They had stolen two children,” his voice became darker, and Legolas could feel the rage simmering beneath his skin as it leached into the air, “who have been safely sent back to their homes.  Preserving that safety meant hunting the rest.”  Visible past Lórnef’s neck, Estel spread his hands. 

“And a Ranger, lost in the mountains?”  It was not quite a mocking tone.

Even so, Estel laughed, more strength to the sound with less chill in his blood.  “The storm shifted on me.”

Legolas hummed.  “It did take a turn,” he agreed.  Long fingers tightened quickly into a ball as Legolas found himself feeling the sudden urge to run them through wavy brown locks. 

A thicker set reached to envelope them.  “Will you keep me warm?” 

Hesitation bred silence, and Legolas was startled to feel Lórnef shift, ducking his head behind the Elf’s back, pushing him firmly around to dump his form beside Estel.  Task accomplished, the stallion snorted with finality, laying his head down on the ground, eyes closing in rest.

Full advantage was taken, with one strong arm wrapped around Legolas, pulling him forward so that his frame, light though it was, pressed Estel back against the stallion’s side.  Confidence sent beard-framed lips to meet their counterparts, Estel’s free hand warm where it met a bared neck.  Indulging him—and, if he were honest, himself—for the moment, Legolas returned the kiss, rationalizing that the increase in bloodflow would further recovery from exposure.  The same logic lost him his tunic, and its lining.  Smooth skin found wiry chest hairs abrasive in pressured contact, yet Legolas kept their torsos together, enclosing Estel’s body between a warm animal’s coat and a desire-heated frame. 

He could taste the hare Estel had eaten last, in his breath, on his tongue.  Contrary to his typical avoidance, the sensation only spurred him deeper, feeling dizzied by the loud moan issuing beneath him.  Quickened breath puffed against a pointed ear, hot lips tracing its curve, and Legolas felt his entire body shudder quite without his permission.  Those same lips curled into a smirk that did not need to be seen to be known, and moved to kiss along the length of the peaked lobe.  Embarrassment raced through his blood as Legolas could not bite back a keening sound when teeth ever-so-gently scraped the skin.

Their positions suddenly reversed, Estel above him, straddled over his waist as if he were intending to ride him like the stallion beneath them.  A protest in his mouth, Legolas nevertheless drew the Man down, both hands framing his jaw, swallowing his own words, replacing them with Estel’s warm tongue.  Eyes snapping open, the small cavern spun in his vision the moment steady, strong hips ground against his own. 

“No,” he groaned, aware but unwilling to acknowledge the anguish in his own voice.  “For warmth, only.”

More scoff than laugh, Estel huffed a sharp breath, resting his forehead on Legolas’.  “For warmth, only?” he repeated.  “Then warm me.”

First light would see them out of their cover, down the mountain, to separate ways or shared paths for a time.  Morning would bring a day where they would be friends, where Legolas would allow the fellowship of kinship, despite their heritage, to see their paths forward.  The next day, life would see them together and apart, as it wished.  That night, however, Estel’s body flattened out over Legolas, pinning him firmly to his enabling companion’s side, exploring lips balancing their allotted time between covering as much skin as they were allowed and catching up their partners, breathless, until they both were too tired to do anything but sleep.


CHAPTER 5 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 6 TITLE
Chapter 6


CHAPTER 6 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 6
Middle Earth was changing. 

It was in the dust, the wind, the scent of nature, and the stink of the unnatural rebuilding once more. 

Even before he had been taken to Rivendell, Strider had been told the stories of the Ages.  The myths of Men were as prominent as careful Elven histories, if not as painstakingly detailed or as solemnly shared.  What he gained with his surrogate family, however, was the knowledge of his place in those myths and histories.  He was the crownless who would be king.  He was meant to lead, to battle, and to rule over a peaceful Age yet to come.

Those were things that were hard to see, to hold onto as hopes, with turmoil rising around him.

What had been small, disconnected bands of fell creatures were now spreading herds, organized under new leaderships.  What had been only whispers of rot and decay through the forests and plains was now blight, drought, and creeping ill.  Things promised, predicted, were coming to pass.  A future which Aragorn, as such, had only nominally accepted as his own, pressed upon him without choice of will, was rapidly approaching whether he was ready for it or not.

---

The absence of war was not always as simple as ‘peace’.

‘Not war’ were battles, conflicts, and incursions.  ‘Not war’ was protecting one’s own lands from singular or multiple forces who claimed ownership of resources.  ‘Not war’ was hunting those who would do the hunting, to cut it off before it began.  ‘Not war’ was identifying threats before they could happen, and changing the fates as best as one could.

‘Not war’ was exhausting.

It was also what kept Legolas moving.  Over the course of the next few decades, Legolas did indeed return home, his already tenuous relationship with his father continuing to strain and test its limits.  There was a significant stretch of time where Legolas nearly forgot he had once been tempted to defy his lineage for the sake of physical desire.  And yet, there were stories.  Stories of a particular Ranger’s travels through the older and wilder places, and, fantastical though they may have been, he could only assume at least some of them were true.  When he wasn’t accusing Legolas of inappropriate behavior, Thranduil had expressed a tenuous support of the would-be king of the realm of Men, the only form of confirmation Legolas had that his mission was considered fulfilled. 

---

Ithilien no longer possessed the splendor of old.  Though Strider had never seen it, himself, he had been raised on the stories of Old Gondor, when the era of Men had flourished.  Now, his eyes only encountered dust and ruin, a wasteland south of once-great cities.  From Osgiliath to the sea, life had been leeched from the land itself, its peoples strained and scattered. 

It was there that Strider was drawn in the Spring of his fiftieth year, as he had been drawn to other, farther reaches.  Orcs were not the only trouble to be thwarted in the Wilds.  Men themselves were complicated people, out for their own, protecting their close ones at the expense of others’.  It was those that Strider found more acutely vile.  Orcs were not mindless, he knew better than to believe that, but their entire culture fed upon violence; they were ruined on it from the youngest age.

Bandits ruled Southern Gondor, now.  Raiding parties of Orcs kept fear alive, and the Men who were left fought over scraps.  With sword and steed, Strider did all he could to rally the good peoples still remaining in the South, to lead them in defending their families, their land.  Out there, no one knew him as ‘Estel’—he was not their long-foretold hope.  No one knew he was Aragorn, son of Arathorn, prophesied to become king.  There was peace in leaving it behind, for a time.

A future king might intimidate at best, or incite aggression at worst.  A future king would be expected to look and act a certain way.  A future king would not be seen in parley with fell creatures, and yet exchanges of words at times out-maneuvered exchanges with blades.  Despite experiences with the former, he yet found himself far more preoccupied with the latter.  And it was the latter which eventually led him back to his friend.

---

Men, he could bargain with.  Even the occasional troll could be reasonable, provided it wasn’t hungry.  Dwarves, stubborn but amenable.  Elves, when unfamiliar, tolerable though haughty.  Orcs, on the other hand, only ever had one of two things on the mind—a fight or a meal.  Admittedly, the two often collided.

They did so again when Aragorn came upon a remote village in the wilds that had been overrun by an Orc pack.  They had made a valiant effort to stave off their own extinction, having taken out more than a dozen of their invaders and hidden away most of their people when nothing else could be done.  What they had been unable to prevent, however, was the capture of seven of their young ones to a break-off party of Orcs who took them over the plains.  Aragorn arrived a mere day after the kidnapping, able to give the men and women of the village a second wind with his assistance, to finish driving off the pack.  Clear of the monsters was not enough. 

Taking only those both willing and able to shoulder the journey, Aragorn set off after the retreating Orcs.  More than a day ahead of them, the pack had time on their side, but Aragorn had both speed and superior tracking ability—wherever they went, whatever directions they changed, he would follow them, and he would find them.  His only hope, and one that he dared not voice to his lagging companions, was that they would arrive before the pack had gotten so hungry as to begin dipping into their newly acquired supply.

Stepping swiftly over the last of a buildup of craggy rock, Aragorn shielded his eyes from the breakthrough of sunlight piercing by the clouds.  It was deep gold, like an overcooked egg—ready to turn pink and red with the end of the day.  After the rocky ridge, a long stretch of patchy plains lay ahead.  With no sign of the pack, he knew they must have passed it before stopping.  Their own party could go a few hours more before needing some rest, though he knew their quarry would be ready to start again at the same time.  Cover of nightfall would embolden the sun-sensitive Orcs to move again, but it would also send more creatures into the fray that they would wish to avoid. 

“How far?” called weakly from behind him.  Gwanmor, father to one of the stolen children, was the first to catch up to where Aragorn had paused for them.  “Have we gained?”

With a firm grasp, he lifted Gwanmor the last of the way to the crest beside him.  “We have,” he confirmed, clasping the man’s shoulder.  “Though not yet enough.”

Voice aimed over his shoulder, Gwanmor called out, “Arafírin, Vanwahíni, are you alright?”  With considerably more effort, the last two of their company found their way to the ridge, leaning on each other for support. 

“We need to keep moving.” 

Even with the warning reminder, Vanwahíni sat heavily on the dirt.  “I can’t,” he panted, rubbing at his face. 

“Can we camp?  Start fresh in the morning?”  Arafírin, rubbing at Van’s shoulder, looked nearly as weary, if stubbornly in denial.

Assessing the state of them all, Aragorn sighed, his mouth tight.  Hand to the ground, he crouched silently, calculating.  “I can catch them,” he determined, “if I go alone.”

“No!”  Even Gwanmor’s protest was enfeebled by fatigue.

“Camp here tonight, let me go ahead.”  Fingers splayed, Aragorn held out his hand for quiet when attempts at protest arose.  “You’re in no condition to fight—I’ll bring them back to you.”

In a few short breaths, Aragorn was running again.  Without the need to worry about the others, he moved faster, taking more risks to remain on a direct line after where he knew the pack had gone.  After the plains, with few rises in between, the terrain opened up into what were known as The Brown Lands—an expanse of nothing fertile, nothing to support green life of any kind.  It was a prime place for the Orc pack to have stopped.

Blackness of night had not yet completely overtaken twilight’s hues as Aragorn found himself midway deep into The Brown Lands.  Though the Orcs had made ditches for resting places, he found them easily once close enough.  Some were awake, some still slumbering, all were ill prepared for his onslaught.  With righteous anger at their crimes, he swept through them, steel against steel, their clashes sharp, echoless in the barren landscape.  Almost methodically, he cut through them, gaining only minor injuries for his troubles.  Four of them managed to flee the melee, though without the added weight of their spoils of battle.  When no more Orc remained for him to cut, Aragorn set his sword to freeing the bonds securing the children.

Unwilling to leave them alone, he stayed with the children until their elders were close enough to be trusted with their receipt.  Hours were lost in the process, but with blood freshly dried on his sword, Aragorn bid the villagers farewell to finish the job he’d started at the Orc pack’s camp. 

To his dismay, their tracks led towards the southern reaches of Mirkwood’s forests.  Though their speed would be cut down, their filth would be more toxic to the trees and life of the green than barren wastes.  He would simply have to catch them up before they intruded on the Elves.

---

Rather than clearly and instructively guiding his son toward what paths he did want for him, Thranduil’s methodology had always leaned more toward criticizing Legolas for every errant choice that did not align.  With the exception of travelling north post-battle, Legolas was most often ordered not to exceed the boundaries of their lands.  He was left to his own devices of diplomacy, until told how he had performed incorrectly.  There were people with whom his father did not wish him to over-fraternize, yet Legolas was not pushed to marry, nor encouraged to gain friends or specific allies. 

Those roles were shifting.

The more darkness overshadowed their surrounding lands, the more the great Elf king retreated into himself.  Disputes amongst their peoples no longer stirred his ire, encroachments upon their forests could not rouse him from his chambers, nor could audiences with their kin and allies garner his full attention from the seat of his throne.  Responsibilities had fallen to Legolas that were not previous entrusted to him.  Outside the recesses of their stronghold, and to all official counts, Thranduil still reigned, but those in the inner circles had begun to look more and more to Legolas for his word alone.

Unchanged was his leading of sentry patrols, both in person and by example.  It was exhausting, performing his own duties as well as his father’s, and he was beginning to feel stretched too thin.  With yet another group of Orcs making their way into the Southern Wood, even as few and ragged as reported, it was with a heavy spirit that Legolas once again departed the central walls to clean up the outer world’s mess.

While he could have left the work to others, and probably should have, he longed for those few moments of a physical fight where nothing else existed—where the only concerns were his hand on his sword or an arrow notched against his knuckle.  Worries of his father’s court, their allies fears, his own life’s anxieties, all of it could be put off for the sake of adrenaline.

He caught the first with an arrow from nearly half a furlong, but the others would not be so easy.  Very few open spaces existed within the Mirkwood forests, with winding paths following the floor as well as the mid-canopy as trunk and branch wove and blended.  Planting his feet and sliding the outer edges of his boots along the moss-slick branches, he made quick work of the rest of the distance to the others.  What he had not expected to find at the end, as he landed in the leaf litter below, as someone already engaging the offending creatures.

“…Estel?” he called out, momentarily stunned out of his forward motion.

Startled, but offering a grin even in mid-swing, his friend earned himself a punch to the neck that glanced off only due to quick reflexes.  Rather than reply, Estel lobbed a dagger over the shoulder of the Orc in front of him, slicing first through the air beside Legolas’ left ear, and then through the face of another Orc behind him.  In tandem, their movements as fluid as they were complementary, the two of them made short and messy work of the other creatures. 

Their blood stained the roots and branches beneath them, but Legolas left the bodies and their pieces where they had fallen, well enough aware that the life within the deep green would take perfect care of them on its own.  Hardly in contrast, Estel’s face, hair, and clothing were splattered and sprayed with blood both fresh and several days old.  He was sweaty, dirty from travel, and disheveled from the fight; it was a rough and wild look, and it called to something within Legolas as if the very sight of it had called his name.

Raising his fist towards his heart, Legolas offered the sincere greeting he was accustomed to, but Estel quickly had none of it.  Grinning once again, the Man batted his hand away, tugging him swiftly and sharply into a firm embrace.  Flat palms clapped against his back, and Legolas only regained his freedom by giving placating pats to Estel’s shoulders.

Stepping back at last, Estel swiped his arm over his forehead, merely smearing the mess rather than alleviating it.  “Thank you, mellonín,” came along panted breath.  “I know you can handle your own woods, but,” his boot kicked a severed and still-twitching arm, sending it skittering off a ledge, “I’d followed them north.”  His face took a darker turn, then.  “They had taken children.”

A wave of revulsion rolled through Legolas, and he felt an inclination to slaughter the beasts all over again. 

“How is it,” Estel’s voice cut through the momentary bloodlust, “that you have not a speck or drop upon you?”  Gesturing with the dagger he had just pulled out of Orc skull, Estel looked impressed.  “Is it an Elf thing, or just a Legolas thing?”

Glancing down, Legolas was unsurprised to see his person completely devoid of tarnishing.  Granted, he had been bloodied before, in larger battle, but not typically.  “The material repels liquid,” he began, smoothing out his cover tunic, “but some of us are simply less messy than others.”

It was a taunt, and it was taken exactly as it was given.  Estel stared at him for a full breath before a wider grin than his greeting stretched his cheeks.  “Is that an insult?”

“Take it as you will.”  Using a predominantly clear section of cloth from a body beside him, Legolas wiped the blood off of his short swords, stowing them away again in their sheaths behind his shoulders.  “You should clean up.”

With a noncommittal grunt, Estel took a handful of fallen leaves, fanning them out and wiping at the blood on his face.  For his part, Legolas was acutely aware that he looked as horrified as he felt.

“No… no, no.”  Ignoring the expression of genuine confusion the met him, Legolas took hold of Estel’s sleeve, tugging to guide him along through the trees. 

“No?”  There was laughter in his voice, bubbling up much like the water Legolas planned to lead him to. 

“No,” he confirmed, releasing his hold in favor of more carefully climbing down, through, and between—he did not need such extra measures, himself, but presumed modeling the safest handholds would prevent Estel from falling over any overconfidence.  That proved unnecessary, as Estel dropped to the lower floor a half second before Legolas, eyes shining with mischief.

Rather than admonish or even acknowledge the move, Legolas strode forward, setting his weapons aside on the wide, flat top of a boulder.  Beyond it was a stream fed by cold, clear water, sparkling with every bit of sunshine that filtered past the canopy.  Many rivers flowed down from the mountain range that split the forest, but this one was Legolas’ favorite.  Unlike the others, it was framed by a flow of boulders, round, almost egg-like in shape, positioned as if they had tumbled down the mountain range and settled amongst the bends of the stream, guiding it or following it, it couldn’t be certain.  One could travel nearly the full length of the water’s travel by hopping from one enormous stone to the next, or simply stand atop one, as he did right then, in full view of both up- and down-stream.

“You’re right,” Estel opened, his voice lighter than exhaustion and exertion should have let it, “this will do much better.”  With absolutely no hesitation, Estel slipped out of his scabbards and their belts, shucked his outer tunic, and stepped smoothly from his long pants.  Eyeing the water, Estel approached the edge of the bank not taken by the half-buried stones, before turning back to look at Legolas, who had just taken a comfortable seat on the water-side edge of the boulder. 

“Oh come now,” he chided, toes already poised at the line between sandy silt and stream, “this seems a bit one-sided, does it not?”

Legolas spread his hands.  “I am not dirty.”  Steely eyes glinted in the dappled light from above, and Legolas felt his body shiver despite the warm air.  His chin rising just slightly, he let his gaze take in the nearly undressed form below him, pointedly watching for the next movements.  “But please, don’t stop on my account.” 

After a moment of consideration, intrigue took over Estel’s features, and with Legolas settled, he crossed his arms to draw his under tunic up and over his head.  Still a pale grey, the soils of battle had not made their way to his innermost clothing; only his skin still showed the evidence of his recent trials.

“Show me how a Ranger gets cleaner than with forest floor litter.”

Down to lining pants, Estel took the challenge and waded in, the swift water soaking the material, its shadow rising up his thighs, towards their crease, before the water itself could.  Though unquestionably tired, not a hint of recent sleep anywhere near his heavy-lidded eyes, there was yet a playful sparkle, when he looked up from careful steps forward, that set a hitch in the center of Legolas’ chest.  Truly, that spark had remained unchanged from when they had first met, but seemed to have gained greater surrounding context of age and wisdom, experience and opportunities. 

Watching the water swallow up Estel’s waist, conflict between the ripples of its current and his body’s motions sending small eddies around the curves of his belly, Legolas felt his desire rise as if freed from restricting bonds.  Yes, he could allow himself to watch the shameless display, to appreciate it for the personalized show that it was, and to catch, with ample amusement, the sopping short pants that were thrown from the stream’s center as Estel fully disrobed. 

Hidden only by the current and the early light’s reflections on the water, his body was still on display, and that display was intended for Legolas alone.  Showing his gratitude with his full attention, Legolas watched as Estel directed handfuls of water over his torso, his arms, shoulders, neck and face.  Soap of any kind would have helped more, but the more stubborn spots were helped along with pinches of silt from the riverbed.  Temporarily making him dirtier, the friction nevertheless worked, and the rivulets of grit the wound their way over Estel’s form were certainly not a poor view.

Finished with the worst of it, Estel sank down, leaning back to dunk his head beneath the surface.  It was strange to see his hair slick back, no longer framing his slender, sharp features.  But Legolas had very little time to consider the difference once Estel was stepping back out of the stream.  All of his clothing was on the bank, or littering the rocks, and though he stood casually at the water’s edge, wringing weighted locks and dripping from every angle, he was as bare as the nature around them.

“You’re blushing again,” Estel accused, his voice light, teasing, and aimed over his shoulder since he was not even looking at Legolas.

“How can you even—”  Much to his horror, Legolas could indeed feel warmth rising in his cheeks, as well as down into his neck.  Tempted to look away, he found himself staring, instead, even as he had to purposefully raise that gaze to meet another. 

---

It was perfect, that rosy tinge that bloomed just beneath such pale skin, like a blossom that had not fully decided which hue it would hold throughout its petals.  Matching it with eyes that rivaled the very sky above them along with the sea at the edge of the land, and Aragorn was transfixed.  All of his concentration had gone into the tease, knowing exactly what he would turn around to find.  He had dreamed of it, often enough.

Not a trace of embarrassment, he walked up the embankment towards his discarded clothing, laying out the soaked short pants on a smaller boulder in the sun.  Letting Legolas watch, confirming surreptitiously now and then that he still was, Aragorn bent just-so, allowing multiple optimal views of his form while clearing the rest of his clothing of dirt and blood.  Everything would be too wet to wear, for a while longer, but at least it would be clean.  Besides, that certainly gave him a solid excuse to hoist himself up next to the flushed Elf, sunning his skin dry on the stone.

Only more amusing was the clearly visible twitch that ran through slender arms and fingers.

“Must you?” Legolas spoke almost too low to be heard above the steady burble of the stream.  There was a tiredness in his voice, but not annoyance, not even truly reproach.

His argument was simple: “How else am I to get warm and dry?”  That in mind, he lay back, stretched over the crowning curve of the boulder, his back arching gently to follow its shape.  Aside from putting him on full display, it was rather comfortable, the cool stone soothing against aching muscles.  In truth, he was quite spent.  “Unless,” he offered, laying his left forearm over his eyes but leaving room to peek to the right, “you wish to warm me faster…”

Laughing hurt his bruised and battered ribs, but he could not help the belly-shaking sound from bursting out of him at hearing the most indelicate of plaintive groans arise beside him. 

Framed by long strands of hair only barely perturbed by his earlier exertion, Legolas’ face turned, then, his perfect features creased with inner conflict.  So much vulnerability lay behind those knitted brows, the worried mouth, all the way down to trembling fingers unsettled against the stone between them.  Quite suddenly, Aragorn knew he must tread more lightly.

“What are you afraid of?”

Even the gentle-toned question lost him that gaze, and a wall of blond hair blocked his view once again.  Not aimed at him, and seeming to be half to himself as it was half in answer, Aragorn had to strain to hear the reply.  “Nothing… you.”

“Me?”  First impulse being to sit upright, Aragorn regretted even the thought as his ribcage protested.  Instead, he slipped his shading arm under his neck as a prop, and reached for the hand beside him with the other.  Long fingers jumped, just enough to be noticed, but remained in reach as Aragorn’s rougher-padded hand soothed over them. 

Legolas turned his entire body in one smooth motion, his legs crossed in front of him, the material over his knees brushing up against both Aragorn’s side and his right thigh.  “No, not of you,” he sighed, his face once again back to pristine condition.  Elbows rested on his own knees, Legolas still had not removed his left hand from Aragorn’s, in fact his eyes were on where they met, his fingers shifting thoughtfully.  “Of myself, perhaps.” 

“Have you ne—”  A laugh and a grunt of pain cut off his words, the toe of a boot digging into his side. 

“I have had sex, Estel.”

Curling onto his side to face Legolas, he protected the offended area.  “I suppose I should be grateful you did not choose somewhere else to hit… and no one has called me that for a long time.”

“Strider?”

“Aragorn.”

Nimble fingers threaded into still damp locks, tucking errant strands behind Aragorn’s ear.  “Accepting your lineage, then?”  Despite their conversation topic, Legolas still managed to look startled when Aragorn kissed his palm as it retreated. 

“Will accepting it gain me your favor?”  His turn to be pleasantly startled, Aragorn eagerly accepted the kiss Legolas drew forward to offer him.

Leaning his forehead against Aragorn’s, Legolas let out a flat exhale of a laugh.  “You already have that.”

Capturing his lips again, Aragorn was loath to break the contact.  “Then what are you waiting for?  You cannot say I’m a child, now.”

He was rewarded with a very obvious glance at his groin.  “I cannot.”

With only half the breath he reached for to speak, Aragorn paused as he was quite suddenly left alone on the boulder top.  A moment after, his mostly-dry short pants were tossed towards his face, and he caught them up in an easy grasp.  “So is that it?”

“Get dressed.”

“Get undressed,” he challenged in return.

 “Not here.”

Aragorn felt his brows rise toward the sky.  “Then where?”

---

Preparing for the off-chance that their new destination would give Aragorn cause to hesitate, Legolas did not tell him exactly where they were going.

Once he was dressed—at least covered enough to travel onward—Legolas started off for the Elven stronghold within the heart of the forest.  If they were to simply walk up to one of the established gates, far more attention would be gained than wished.  So he avoided the sentries, having ordered their routes himself.  He knew every possible path through the Wood, those occupied by his people and those occupied by spiders and other inhospitable creatures.  Swift, soft-landing feet led him up and over the tree branches easily, and Legolas found himself impressed every time he looked back to find Aragorn keeping up with him without difficulty or complaint.

Eagerness spurred him on, his body already drunk on the thought of giving in to Aragorn’s repeated advances.  The effect was distracting, just enough to alter his coordination so that he noticed, but remained hopeful that his companion did not.  Even so, he paused before their last leg of journeying.

“You will need to follow closely,” he warned, standing with his feet aligned on a slender branch, with what appeared at first glance to be a wall of green ahead.

“Does it get dark?”  Curious, Aragorn stepped up behind Legolas, an overly-casual hand landing on the Elf’s waist, whether for stability or merely for the contact, he couldn’t be sure.

Deciding to leave that choice alone for the moment, Legolas shook his head.  “No, and you must pay attention.”  For emphasis, he waited until Aragorn’s eyes were on his.  “Not just anyone can follow this way; the trees themselves would not deem them worthy.  So every movement I make, you make.  Every step I take, you take.  If I duck, you duck.  If I lean, you lean.  If I jum—”

“If you jump, I jump, yes I get the idea.”  An irreverent and indulgent smile accompanied the interruption.

Momentarily, Legolas considered flicking a fingernail against Aragorn’s stubborn forehead.  Instead, the trees around—and beneath—them made the point for him, groaning, creaking.  Legolas stepped away from him, showing that his motions caused no such complaint.

Eyes widening, Aragorn nodded.  “Alright, alright.  What you do, I do.”  When he stepped to follow, the branches and trunks were silent, and Legolas guided them through the warren of crisscrossing limbs. 

There was a space where a set of branches led over the upper edge of the wall, holding their tension only for just long enough to leap.  Though they had never failed Legolas before, he paused before the last steps, touching the weathered bark with reverence, and asking quietly, in the oldest of tongues he knew, for them to allow his companion to pass with him.  A rustle ran through the leaves nearest them, with no touch of a breeze. 

Assured Aragorn was watching, Legolas made quick work of the runway and the jump, landing softly and silently on the other side, the top rim of the wall.  Sorely tempted not to watch, he nevertheless turned to be certain they both made it.  A smile ticked into his cheek as he watched Aragorn lean down, touching calloused fingers to the bark beneath him, and whisper to the trees.  It would not have been the same words, he did not know the language, but the gesture was repeated all the same.  With the same beats, he followed and landed beside Legolas.

“Well done,” he praised, pleased at how his own amusement appeared to intrigue his friend. 

In a way, the wall was the easy part.  Once inside, there were far more Elves than there were trees, and any one of them had the potential to inadvertently sound an alarm that indicated the prince’s return.  Most especially as they made their way through the heart of the fortress.  A hollowed interior, they passed a grand door-less entryway, and Legolas impressed upon Aragorn as best as he could that they must be quiet as they continued.

“Why?” whispered back, already breaching the advice.

Lips pursed for a moment, Legolas exhaled slowly through his nose.  “Because that is the throne room of Mirkwood.  Where the king sits,” he added, when Aragorn hadn’t reacted with enough recognition.

At last, his eyes widened, and he looked to the opening arch, unconsciously leaning that direction, as if he were about to run off toward it.  Legolas grabbed up his shoulder’s material and yanked him sharply around the corner and into a side corridor, breaking his rule once again by causing an echoing yelp to issue from Aragorn’s throat. 

Winding stairs, bright open-air halls, and a thick vine-woven door later, and they had at last arrived at the prince’s chambers.  Not possessing a lock, as such, Legolas chose to slide a lounging chair across the floor, blocking the door.  An absolutely lascivious smirk awaited him as he turned back to face the outer room. 

“Undress.”

“I did not bring you here to give me orde—”  His words were cut off by Aragorn’s mouth blocking their exit, his body having crossed the short space between them in less than a breath, rough fingertips dragging over the skin of Legolas’ neck as his head was cradled.  Much softer hands clasped offending forearms, but made no actual attempt to dissuade their aim.  Legolas quite suddenly found his back pressed against the wall beside his door.  Wind knocked loose of his lungs, he gasped, breaking the seal of their lips. 

“My apologies, your highness,” came a tone sweetened with anything but contrition, “are you injured?”

Tongue flicking over his lips, Legolas leaned back, taking back control of his body’s angle.  “Nothing some palliative care would not fix.”

Hint not unnoticed, Aragorn’s hands left their upper perches, running down the outsides of Legolas’ narrower shoulders, around the backs of his arms to press in to his sides, and from there slid firmly across the plane of his tunic to take two wide handfuls of the swell of his ass.  All the while, grey eyes watched his face with a nearly obscene sparkle. 

Yet Legolas made no unplanned sound.  “Hmm,” he assessed, shifting his weight to test the hold, which flexed against his motion, “not a bad start.”

Challenged as intended, Aragorn narrowed his eyes for just a second before employing that same grasp and a swift bend for leverage to lift Legolas completely clear of the floor, the squeeze of his elbows encouraging, and he followed, his legs to tip around Aragorn’s waist. 

“Fuck, you’re light as a feather,” he breathed, clearly excited by the idea. 

“When I want to be,” Legolas boasted, letting the statement fall as cryptic as it may, in the moment.

Teeth nibbled along his neck, and Legolas briefly feared he would be forced to come undone in the barest entry of his rooms, but their bite did not ascend.  “So,” Aragorn began between scrapes against pale skin, “where do you sleep?”

Thumb and forefinger pinched the swell of his bottom when he did not answer fast enough, and Legolas dug the heel of his boot in, as reproach.  Taking back the upper hand, he gathered a fair fistful of Aragorn’s long locks, tugging them in the direction of his bedchamber.  “This way.”

Grunting a complaint, but not relinquishing his task, Aragorn managed to follow the pulls of guidance until the backs of his thighs bumped the high mattress at last.  In one smooth motion, one that only succeeded because it was unexpected, Aragorn turned and tossed Legolas onto the bed, grinning with bright teeth when it brought him an undignified squawk.

“You cannot throw a prince!”  Being back in his own home, his own bedroom, fed indignation, even as he welcomed the purposeful crawl of Aragorn’s form up and onto the bed with him. 

Perched with their knees nested, Aragorn steadily removed his clothing to his waist, once again.  “And you are rather fond of reminding me that I will one day be king, are you not?”

Without a ready reply, Legolas was loath to watch Aragorn’s satisfaction over having won the moment.  Following the example, he shrugged out of his outer tunic, only to find his hands batted away when he started on the liner.  A shiver ran through him while calloused fingers slid under the material at his waist, rising with it, up his sides, to his chest, thumbs only grazing his nipples.  It was every bit a tease, but his shirt was in his face before he could express his disapproval. 

“It’s almost tempting to leave you like that,” Aragorn chuckled, but continued the job of freeing his head.   “But then I wouldn’t see this.”  Cupping his cheek, Aragorn gazed fondly over him, leaning to rub his own cheek on the other side.

Sounding his complaint with a grunt, Legolas rolled their bodies easily, pinning the Ranger to the bed, instead, and freeing his cheek from the friction burn of stubble on his skin.  “If you want to keep doing that,” he informed, sitting firmly on Aragorn’s waist, “you will have to shave.” 

Chuckling through a grunt, Aragorn squirmed beneath him, attempting to unseat him.  “…How are you so heavy right now?”

Finally cracking a grin, Legolas made quick work of securing his loose hanging hair, twisting it with the smaller existing braid, and tying it all off.  “I told you,” he reminded, straightening, hands running down through Aragorn’s chest hair, following it down his belly, “I can be heavy when I want to be.”

“Magic,” Aragorn murmured, with no small amount of affection, while still working to squirm out.  It got him nowhere. 

“Skill,” Legolas corrected.  Thighs cinched, he leaned forward, pressing his fingers into Aragorn’s sides.  “And I have others.”

Body shuddering under the pressure, Aragorn craned his neck to capture up Legolas’ mouth, licking over his lips when they drew back again.  “Don’t tease,” he cautioned.

“And if I did?”  Not waiting for the answer, Legolas shifted his weight back enough to give him space to unlace Aragorn’s pants.  No answer came, anyway, as Aragorn focused instead on wiggling to assist in the effort of working the pants down and off his legs.  He hadn’t bothered with lining garments after the stream, and so was bared under Legolas’ deft fingers in short work. 

Disregarding every bodily signal that Aragorn had other ideas, Legolas slipped his ankles behind Aragorn’s knees, one hand firmly pressing his upper hip to the mattress, the other drawing lightly along the crease of his thighs.  Lidded eyes followed his efforts, one of Aragorn’s arms propped behind his head to help the view.  Meeting his eyes for just a moment, Legolas flattened his palm, pinning the readily erect length to its owner’s stomach, working his way down to it with firm, wet kisses over Aragorn’s chest and stomach.  By the time his breath was close enough to puff out over the bared head, Aragorn was already shuddering steadily under his hold. 

Apparently, nothing at all would happen if he teased.  Even so, he was merciful enough to draw Aragorn’s cock into his mouth after only a base to tip lick with a flattened tongue.  Breathy encouragements in a mix of Elvish and Westron streamed from above as Legolas slid his lips down, hollowing his cheeks and swallowing Aragorn’s tip into the opening of his throat.  A low hum later, and he had pulled a deep whine from Aragorn.  Letting the shaft fall from his mouth to smack against the belly beneath, Legolas gave a soft squeeze to his balls, underneath. 

“Ah, the mighty Ranger of the North, felled to desperation by one mere Elf.”

“Desper—”  Aragorn stopped mid-word, his breath momentarily failing him.  “I am not desperate.”  Overcoming the added weight of Legolas’ position, Aragorn once again turned them, burying his nose in the crook of Legolas’ neck, lowering his body to spread out fully over him.  Strong hands gathered his, lacing their fingers and drawing them up over their heads.  Bare hips ground down against Legolas, having little trouble properly aiming even through his pants.

Pleased enough with the friction, Legolas matched the motion in kind, baring his neck for easier access.  Heavy breath turned to a sharp whine when teeth hit his earlobe again.  Instinct had his hands seeking to push the offender away, but they were kept firmly pressed into the mattress, and though he was strong, Aragorn had the literal upper hand and leverage, and his struggling got him nowhere.  All it earned him was teeth further up the shell of his ear, a hot tongue following them, and Legolas saw spots seep into his vision as the sensitive point of his ear was sucked firmly into Aragorn’s mouth.

Unable to free themselves, his hands grasped frantically at Aragorn’s, his feet pushing at the mattress while gaining no traction in moving his position.  The sensation was overwhelming, lighting more of his nerves on fire the longer his ear remained in Aragorn’s mouth.  Cartilage squeaked audibly between biting teeth, his hips squirming under the grinding pressure over them, Legolas working with what little concentration he could muster to keep the aim true, shaft against shaft.  Steadily, he edged toward climax, even half clothed, but what sent him over the edge was the sharp bite to the outer edge of his earlobe.

Crying out, feeling the wet drop of blood bloom against his skin even as it was lapped away, Legolas saw only white light for a second, his own cock shuddering through completion while he fought to catch his breath. 

“Cheater,” he hoarsely voiced.  No response had him opening one eye to check on his partner. 

Aragorn was staring at Legolas, all but literal stars lighting his eyes.  “Ainur, you’re beautiful.”  Clearly unable to help himself, he dropped down, nearly frenzied with his mouth on Legolas’, his tongue seeking deeply into his mouth.  Every part of Legolas was pressed firmly into the bed, no matter his wiggling efforts.  Using his toes, Aragorn managed to maintain that pressure while tugging off the remaining clothing that kept them from full contact. 

With only one hand released, Legolas quickly gasped, almost choking on a thick tongue, when rough fingers pressed over his most sensitive skin.  Breath quickened, worked for, he grabbed a fistful of hair, pulling Aragorn’s head back even as he moaned loudly, his cock taken into a firm, squeezing grasp. 

Not hissing, or even complaining, Aragorn merely mirrored his sounds, fondling over him in a rolling rhythm in cadence with his breathing.  Nose nuzzled into his armpit, Aragorn chuckled.  “No hair anywhere, huh.”

Cheeks flushing, Legolas squirmed to free his arm and side from the burning tickle of stubble.  “Out!” he commanded. 

His smirk rivaling the shine in his eyes, Aragorn held his gaze while sliding back from him just enough to reach his fondling hand down, past his balls, long middle finger searching for his hole, beyond.  Legolas was well aware that his flush had leapt down his neck, over his clavicle, and perhaps eased even further in spots on his skin.  It was not unprecedented, but never so quick.  His composure was fleeing him faster than a warg could run.

Slicked with spit, that finger returned, rubbing a circle around his rim, blazing a trail of heat from it and blooming in his skin in its wake.  Legolas shifted his legs, spreading them to the sides above where Aragorn knelt, providing him with full access.  Humming in approval at the move, Aragorn gained a positively filthy smirk.  With a wink to Legolas, he grabbed up each of his thighs in a strong move, bending them up and towards his chest.  That change brought his bottom into the air, and right as he took a breath to protest the idea of beard hair against his nethers, he could only gasp further at the hot, wet tongue sliding itself along his skin. 

“Fuck.”  A string of profanity, not limited to their two native languages, ran from his mouth while Aragorn tongued at his asshole, licking from his split to his balls and back, spitting wet trails and working them inside.  He felt overexposed, scandalized, and hotter than he’d ever been. 

Tongue wiggling deeper, Aragorn’s beard and stubble scraped extra sensitive skin, and to his horror, even that hot brush was spurring Legolas to another firm erection.  How dare he, a Man, supposedly more naturally driven by baser desires, prepare to drive Legolas to two orgasms before finding his own even once.  Aware of the mixture of pleasure and pain, he was nevertheless unused to their entanglement.

Abruptly, contact ceased, drawing an unfortunate whine out of Legolas, his legs set down. 

“Don’t tell me you’ve abandoned your post, Ranger?”

Flashing bright teeth, Aragorn wiped his mouth clear, in the same moment spitting into his hand.  “Far from it,” he assured.  A few swift strokes over himself, and his slicked cock was lined up, ready to press forward. 

Humming through a groan, Legolas wiggled towards him, encouragingly.  “Then stake your claim.”

Shoulders pressed into the backs of Legolas’ knees, and that thick-headed shaft stretched its way through his rim.  Complementary moans filled the air between them, around them, through them.  And then Aragorn paused, not even fully past the barrier of that taut ring.  “Ask me properly,” he ordered with a shudder.

Unfortunately, from his position, Legolas had no leverage at all to try squirming closer to fix the problem of being not-quite entered.  All he had was stretch, weighing his breathing, but he wanted more, the friction, the slide, the fill.  “Please,” came with no hesitation, but his partner made no move.  “Please, Aragorn…”

Partially curled locks shook as Aragorn disagreed.  “Not what I mean.” 

“Wh—” he stopped, watching that sparkle of mischief shine in the eyes above him, and suddenly realizing.  Cursing below his breath, Legolas sent a half-hearted glare upward.  When all he got was a grin, Legolas took a breath, preparing his act.  Another squirm, hands reaching to grasp his, Legolas thickened his voice with want.  “Please, your highness,” he began, whining for full effect, “please fill me.”

A near feral growl rumbling in his throat, Aragorn wasted no more time thrusting his hips steadily forward, mouth dropping open, breath punching out with the tight squeeze.  Legolas readily accepted, sighing with pleasure as his eyes closed, reveling in it. 

“Open.”  It was gentle, encouragement with no withholding. 

Legolas exhaled a laugh.  “Am I not already open?”  But he obeyed, opening his eyes, watching as he was watched, both of them in the moment while their bodies rocked together, closer, faster.  It could only last so long as it was, he knew, before that friction caused damage.  Allowing himself to enjoy the motion, the connection, all of the internal and external sensations lighting up his nerves, his skin, Legolas at last had Aragorn pause. 

Pointing to the carved and curving head of the bed’s frame, he directed Aragorn’s attention.  “The plant,” he began, swallowing to regain his voice, “it will ease your entry.”

Brows pinching, Aragorn looked from him to the vine winding its way up the wall and the bed, then back to him again.  “You want me to put a leave on my dick?”

“As amusing as that would be,” he chuckled, reaching back as far as he could, breaking off one of the thicker growths.  Bringing it between them, he peeled the two layers apart, revealing a thick, clear gel inside.  “Use this, and you will not need to spit into your hand every few minutes.”

Even as he took a mass of the gel onto his fingers, drawing out just enough to apply it, Aragorn displayed amusement.  “And you grow this in your bedchamber?”  Clucking his tongue, his breath hitching as he shivered against the gel’s cool texture, he pressed forward once again, much more smoothly.  “Legolas Greenleaf—the slut of Mirkwood.”

There was little point in stopping to argue.

In short time, there was no space left between them.  Legolas was bent in half, his own knees pressed back toward this armpits, his back a convex arch above the bed to allow Aragorn deep inside of him.  Breathing was difficult enough in his position, but Aragorn insisted on sealing their connection with breathless kisses—sloppy, wet, and noisy kisses.  Rooms and corridors in the woodland fortress being not at all soundproof, Legolas was distantly aware that any number of persons nearby could absolutely hear them.  Later might be different, but right then, he absolutely did not care. 

In fact, he found the thought exciting.  Perhaps his father would hear.

A particularly loud moan broke their kiss, Aragorn’s thrust having hit just right.  Unwilling to lose that to chance, Legolas made a concerted effort—legs down, leverage changed over, he had Aragorn on his back again, this time seated on his cock, and able to rock just how he wanted, using his core to roll his hips down and forward. 

“Taking over, my Prince?”  Admiration in his tone and expression, Aragorn tucked both hands up behind his head, resting back, seeming content to let Legolas do all of the work.

Honorific title spurring him on, Legolas decided to make a better show of it.  Not pausing his motion, he reached back to untie his hair, save for the ever-present upper plait, allowing the majority of it to descend over his neck and shoulders, framing his head in a pale halo.  Keeping his arms up and back, he carefully controlled his torso, sending rolling tension through his muscles from chest to groin and hip, undulating like a snake.  Enticing for his audience, it had the added benefit of aiming Aragorn’s cock directly at the sweet spot he had been working for, which in turn made the coordination more difficult.

Through shakes and shudders, his heartbeat pounding in his ears, breath coming raggedly, Legolas rocked in a steady rhythm, speeding only when strong hands once again returned to his frame, grasping the outsides of his hips.  Their hold did not direct, but tightened in appreciation while Legolas watched his partner’s chest rise and fall, shivering with tension poised for release.  A few well-angled rolls of those hips, and Aragorn cried out sharply, his head tipped back, neck flushed with pleasure as he came.  Pleased with his efforts, Legolas continued through his tremors, waiting for the signs of overstimulation. 

He did not get them. 

Not only did Aragorn not push him off, not claim he needed a break, or that he was finished, he instead dragged himself—and, by proxy, Legolas, as well—backward on the bed, until he was sitting upright, propped against the smooth branches that framed the wall.  This brought them close once more, one rough hand behind Legolas’ neck, the other fumbling for the discarded leaf before finding his unattended cock.  Despite being used to the cold, shivers ran through him at the conflicting messages, Aragorn’s hand radiating heat by contrast.

Their last efforts were far less coordinated, stuttering and sharp, tired but determined.  Legolas found completion first, to little surprise, unloading into Aragorn’s hand, splashes reaching past his fingers to his stomach.  Riding the last of that high, body trembling with the need to revel and rest, Legolas stole what breath he could from Aragorn as he worked to follow, sucking on his tongue until a nearly anguished moan signaled he had finished. 

Several moments passed before they found the will to even move, laying out across the mattress.  Long before words, Aragorn’s head found its way to lay against Legolas’ chest, one arm around the other in trade.  For a terrain-hardened Ranger of the wilds, Aragorn turned out to be quite the cuddler. 

“Decades,” breathed out against his skin.

“Mm?”

Wiry beard hairs scraped his chest.  “We could have had this for decades, you know.”

Pressing a fond kiss to the top of his head, Legolas chuckled softly.  “No.  It would not have worked, then.”  Idly stroking his fingers along Aragorn’s muscle-lined spine, he added, “But we have decades more, Mellonín, Mellethnín."  And even if they were bound to be fraught with trials and troubles, still, they would have them.  "Decades more.”


CHAPTER 6 FINAL NOTES
Thanks to everyone who showed interest in this! I've definitely learned some things along the way about how I might like to write in the Tolkien world... so I may revisit one day, haha.