TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Quentessë	starlightwalking	2021-10-23	2021-10-23	3,573	1/1	18	89	20	877

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
General Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Ereinion Gil-galad & Fingon | Findekáno & Maedhros | Maitimo, Ereinion Gil-galad & Maedhros | Maitimo, Ereinion Gil-galad & Fingon | Findekáno, Fingon | Findekáno/Maedhros | Maitimo	Ereinion Gil-galad, Maedhros | Maitimo, Fingon | Findekáno, Fëanor | Curufinwë, House of Finwë	Trans Character, Trans Male Character, Trans Female Character, Demiboy Character, Nonbinary Character, Gender Identity, Gender Diversity, Assigned Noldor At Birth, Quenya, Languages and Linguistics, Queer Language, Queer Quenya, Trans Pregnancy, Everyone Is Trans And Everyone Is Happy, those two things are extremely related :), Family Fluff, Storytelling, Alternate Universe - No Darkening of Valinor, Happy AU, Little Gil-galad, Gil-galad Russingonion, Gil-galad Son of Plothole, Flashbacks, First Meetings, New Relationship, Dorks in Love, Established Relationship, Good Dad Fëanor, Amazing Grandpa Fëanor, some cissexism / minor transphobia, Trans Fingon, Trans Fëanor, a LOT of other characters are trans but those 2 are the most plot-important, Innumerable Stars 2021, Innumerable Stars treat

SUMMARY
Quentessë: a story of Names.

(In which Maitimo and Findekáno tell their child the stories of their names and their natures, and a new Scion of Kings is presented before the Noldor.)

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Quentessë


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
For ThatFeanorian.
For the incredible Fey, who requested Russingon and Gil-galad family fluff, "Russo" as a pet name given to Maedhros by Fingon, and non-traditional genders :) Given how incredibly On-Brand this treat is, I'm not really trying to hide my identity, lol... anyway love you Fey <3

I've been wanting to write something like this for a little while now; I have headcanons around elvish Coming of Age ceremonies in general, and there's so many ways to explore Elf Gender! This story was particularly inspired by this quote from NoMe and thoughts I had that sprung up around it. Also, I thought silver-haired Gil would be apt considering how NoMe influenced this story :)

There are a LOT of accompanying linguistic notes for this fic; see the end notes for that! But up top, here are a few definitions to guide you through this story:
- nássë = “nature, true-being, essence”; here used to express the concept of “gender”
- essë = “name”
- ataressë, amilessë = “father/mother name”
- amilessë apacenyë = “mother name of foresight”
- kilmessë = “chosen name”
- epessë = “after-name,” usually given by another person out of admiration/affection/honor/respect


CHAPTER 1
“I am very proud of you, Ilma,” Maitimo said, embracing his child. “This is a big day for you, and we are all excited to know your essë and nássë.”

“Atya, you already know,” the child giggled. “You and Atto both gave me essi!”

“But those are our ataressi for you, dear Artanár,” Findekáno said, kissing his child on the forehead. “This shall be your kilmessë!”

“And you already know that too, you helped me pick it!”

Findekáno nodded gravely. “But now all Eldalië shall know.”

“Tell me about your Naming Day,” Ilmafinwë Artanár begged, and the child’s fathers smiled at one another, for they had told this story many times, but were always glad to tell it again.

 

 

“Hello, cousin,” Maitimo said.

The child looked up suspiciously. “Hello. My atya says I shouldn’t talk to you.”

Maitimo sighed. “My atar says I shouldn’t talk to you, either. But we are here for your Naming Day, and it would be very rude not to congratulate you.”

The child huffed. “Just don’t call me a princess.”

“I wasn’t going to,” Maitimo said, tilting his head. “Are you not declaring your nássë as well as your essë?”

“...you can do that?” the child asked in wonder.

Maitimo nodded. “In my atar’s house, he and my amil did not assign us nássi at birth like they do for children in Tirion. Atar is very fond of words and knows how important they are. He gave us many books and talked to us often about our nássi, if we wanted to.”

The child’s eyes were very wide. “And you?” the child asked breathlessly.

Maitimo shrugged. “I was sometimes interested,” he said. “When my Naming Day came, I had decided I was a nér, which is what the midwives in Tirion would have said if Atar had asked. But I am glad I was able to have the chance to figure that out on my own terms.” He smiled. “I have four brothers. My brother Káno would have been called a princess, if he hadn’t had the choice to declare himself a nér. So would my brother Curvo. I think we all admire our father so much that his nássë became very special to us, and we found it within ourselves as well. Curvo would say that his nássë is our father’s nássë. He is very like Atar.”

“And...your atar?” the child asked.

“Oh, he was like Káno and Curvo,” Maitimo said. “He coined a term for it: lethanássë. He is a lethanér. That is why he was so adamant to raise us like he did. He was the one who birthed us, and he had spent too much time even after his naming day being seen as a princess. It was not until he went to my grandfather Mahtan’s workshop and met my mother Nerdanel that he realized there were many other ways to live.”

“Nerdanel,” the child said slowly. “Manly woman? Is that what her name means?”

“Close to it.” Maitimo nodded. “Her mother gave her the amilessë apacenyë ‘Nisdanor’ when she was a little boy. She had foresight that my mother would be of two natures. On my mother’s Naming Day, she chose the kilmessë ‘Nerdanel,’ and declared she was both a nís and a nér—attanássë, as my father terms it—but that she preferred feminine terms of reference.”

“And everyone just called her that?” the child exclaimed.

“Of course,” Maitimo said. “My mother’s family is from Aulë’s Halls. They are very understanding there of the nature of things, how they are made, how they are shaped and might be changed: fëar as well as metals.”

“But not in Tirion,” the child said grumpily.

Maitimo patted his cousin’s shoulder. “The old customs fell out of practice in Tirion,” he said sympathetically. “It is part of why my father left.”

“And because he hates my father.”

Maitimo winced. “Yes. That too.”

Privately, he thought that part of why Fëanáro hated Nolofinwë was because Nolofinwë was thought to be the oldest son for far too long. Fëanáro wanted that title for himself. He had it now—even if the environment of Tirion did not foster exploration of one’s nássë, if someone discovered theirs was different to the one assigned to them, that was respected as sacred—but the sting of not being seen for who he was still hurt. And it hurt all the more to see his half-brother fill the position of “eldest son” so easily, when he had to struggle to understand that about himself. But this was not the kind of thing one asked Curufinwë Fëanáro about: he was happy to talk about his nássë, but not about his brother. Not at all.

“But...” The child’s brows furrowed. “I think I know my nássë. I just—didn’t know how to tell people. Can I tell them now?”

“Your Naming Day is a very good occasion for it,” Maitimo said encouragingly. “People may be surprised, and it may take them time to adjust, but they will accept you in time.”

“Then...” The child smiled tentatively. “Can I tell you first, Maitimo?”

Maitimo blinked away a tear. “I would be honored,” he said softly.

“My name is Findekáno,” the child whispered. “And I am a nér!”

 

 

“And that was when I knew I would I would marry your father someday,” Fingon concluded.

Maitimo blushed. “Finno,” he mumbled, “you were just a child! I was almost grown!”

“Yes, well, I knew,” Findekáno said simply. “And I did not do anything about it until I was older.”

“And you gave Atya an epessë, right?” Ilmafinwë Artanár prompted.

“My Russo,” Findekáno said fondly, kissing his husband’s cheek.

“That was when I realized I would marry you,” Maitimo said, resting his chin on Findekáno’s head.

“Tell me the story!” their child demanded, and once more, his fathers acquiesced.

 

 

Findekáno was so beautiful in the firelight. He was always beautiful, but in this moment Maitimo was mesmerized, watching the gold in his hair shine, his eyes dance with the light of the flames and the Light of the Trees but mostly with the light of his fëa, a light all his own. His perfect mouth curved up in a smile as he spoke, moving his hands animatedly.

“Maitimo,” he laughed, startling him out of his quiet appreciation. “Are you even listening?”

Maitimo ducked his head. “Sorry,” he mumbled. “I was just...” He swallowed. Their relationship was young, and it was still difficult for him to confess the feelings he’d kept locked up inside for so long. “I was just—admiring how beautiful you are.”

Findekáno’s smile softened, and he scooted closer, taking Maitimo’s hand. “Oh, meldo,” he murmured. “If I am beautiful, it is because you find me so.”

“You are beautiful,” Maitimo insisted. “Anyone can see it!”

“Says Maitimo, named for his beauty,” Findekáno teased.

“Well, I couldn’t very well pick Nelyafinwë to be my kilmessë,” he huffed. “Even as a child I knew the political implications of that. So Maitimo was the only option.”

“And you did not think to make your own kilmessë?”

“Well, did you?”

“Yes.” Findekáno blinked. “I thought you knew. You helped me make it, after all.”

This was news to Maitimo. “I did?”

“You told me about declaring one’s nássë...”

“I remember that part.”

“But up until that point, I had wanted to be Astaldo,” Findekáno explained. “It is still my name, if not my kilmessë, for all my mother was worried that by taking Tulkas’ name without the modification she intended would be blasphemous...but anyway, you know what my father name was originally, don’t you?”

“I...no, I don’t,” Maitimo admitted. “Or—I guess, I thought it was Findekánë, if I thought at all. Mostly I didn’t. I have only ever known you as Findekáno.”

“Oh, well, my father named me Issefindë as a child,” Findekáno explained. “It isn’t the most feminine of names, but it was so tied to me being ‘little princess Issë’ that I couldn’t stand it. But then he named my brother Turukáno, after himself—Arakáno—so when I made my own name I took the part of my ataressë I didn’t hate and the masculine suffix my father had passed to Turno, and I became Findekáno!”

Maitimo nodded, his heart warmed by Findekáno’s pride in himself. “But...how did I help?”

“Well, you told me I could be any nássë I wanted,” Findekáno said. “I had known I wanted to a masculine name, but I didn’t know what—and in that moment, I realized I was a lethanér, and the name just came to me.”

“Give yourself the credit then,” Maitimo said, “or Eru, if you must credit someone else. Not me!”

“It would not have happened without you, melotorno,” Findekáno murmured, and kissed him softly. “You have always been special to me.”

Maitimo kissed him back, just as soft, his heart fluttering. It was still a marvel he could do this now, after so long of daydreaming of what Finno’s lips would feel like on his own.

“So, you don’t like your amilessë?” Findekáno asked, settling himself into Maitimo’s arms. “Even though you chose it as your kilmessë?”

“Oh...it’s fine,” Maitimo dismissed. “I know what my mother meant by it, that I am her greatest work, though now that she has six other greatest works I don’t know if she would agree with her past self...”

“I’m sure she would,” Findekáno said. “Your siblings also being wonderful does not mean you are any less so.”

“I do like the name,” he admitted. “I just feel a little vain for having chosen it. And I like being called Nelyo, even if I’m not all too fond of Nelyafinwë. But I do wish, sometimes, I had picked something else as a kilmessë. Just to have...another option.”

“Then I shall have to give you another essë,” Findekáno declared. “An epessë, from your melotorno!”

Ai, Maitimo had already been in love with him, but it was in moments like these that he fell all over again.

“You don’t have to,” he whispered, but Findekáno could see in his fëa how much that meant to him.

“I want to,” Findekáno said. “I love you. And you deserve a name that is mine.” He ran his hands through Maitimo’s hair, and Maitimo shuddered in delight. “Hmm...yes, your hair...”

“Finno...?”

“Russandol,” Findekáno said firmly, his eyes brightening as the idea came to him in a flash of perfect light. “You are Russandol. Copper-top.” He beamed. “My Russo.”

“Oh, Finno,” Russandol whispered, tears budding in his eyes. “Thank you.”

“You needn’t make it your new kilmessë, or anything,” Findekáno said quickly. “I know changing things after your Naming Day is not exactly encouraged—”

“Well, Morië changed her nássë long after her Day, even if she kept her essë,” Maitimo Russandol mused, remembering his sister Morifinwë’s unceremonious declaration that she was, in fact, a lethanís, some years after her own Naming Day. He paused, then added, “Though she’s never really cared for what people thought of her. I think she might have done that half on purpose.”

“But—it is your name now.” Findekáno squeezed his hand. “Do what you’d like with it, Russandol. Only...”

“Hm?”

Findekáno looked at him, heat flashing in his eyes. “I think I will reserve the use of ‘Russo’ for myself alone.” He grinned shyly. “If that’s alright with you.”

“Of course it is,” Russo murmured. “I am honored to be your Russo. I—” He flushed. “I like having a part of me that is only yours. I like—I like being yours.”

“Mine,” Findekáno said, soft but fierce, and grabbed him and kissed him even fiercer, and Russandol knew in that moment he would always be Findekáno’s Russo.

 

 

Maitimo’s Naming Day had been all pomp and circumstance, a grand ceremony for Finwë’s eldest grandchild. The only thing of note had been the flash of relief in his uncle’s eyes when he declared his kilmessë was to be Maitimo, not Nelyafinwë, followed by a resigned shoulder slump as Fëanáro declared Maitimo a Prince of the Noldor and third in line to the throne, displacing Nolofinwë nonetheless. There truly was no winning in this family.

Findekáno’s Naming Day had been more of an event. He had proudly declared first his nássë and then his kilmessë, both shocking everyone, especially his parents, who had been expecting a “normal” ceremony. Anairë had fretted about the alteration of Astaldë to Astaldo, and Ñolofinwë had mourned the “loss” of his daughter Issefindë before Findekáno asserted himself as a Prince of the Ñoldor and still very much alive, just under a different name. And, he had added pointedly, given he named himself Findë after his father’s gift and Káno after his father’s own name, he was still honoring Ñolofinwë in his choice of kilmessë. His father had quieted then, and been unquestionably supportive ever since.

Today, the Naming Day of Ilmafinwë Artanár, Scion of Kings, child of Nelyafinwë Maitimo Russandol and Findekáno Astaldo, grandchild of Curufinwë Fëanáro and of Ñolofinwë Arakáno, great-grandchild of Finwë Ñoldóran, and the most adored young royal in all of Tirion, would be different.

The child’s Uncle Káno would sing, and Uncle Tyelko and Aunt Rissi (who had been named with Findekáno’s discarded prefix, satisfying Ñolofinwë’s desire for a daughter with the name Írissë) had brought down a great hart, and Aunts Ambarussar had dressed and cooked it. Auntie Morië had woven the child’s dress by hand, and Uncle Curvo had wrought a fine golden crown, and Uncle Turno had designed the gazebo upon which the ceremony would take place, while Arakána, Findekáno’s youngest sibling who had declared themself as únássë, had carefully painted the pillars and roof of the gazebo. Haru Fëanáro had crafted his grandchild a necklace of sparkling jewels, and Haru Ñolofinwë had prepared a marvelous speech, and Haruni Anairë had cooked the most delicious cake, and Haruni Nerdanel had made little frog statues to serve as centerpieces for each of the tables. Harutar Finwë and Harunamil Indis had brought gifts from Manwë and Varda, Harutar Mahtan and Harunamil Ontamë had volunteered to host the event on their estate near Aulë’s Halls, and while Anairë’s parents were too busy with their service to Vána to attend, they had sent their love and splendid gifts of their own along with their other daughters.

All in all, it was perfect, and even if there were no guests outside of family, there was plenty of family, all of them who adored young Ilmafinwë Artanár and eagerly awaited the child’s declaration of essë and nássë. Ilmafinwë Artanár had insisted on an air of mystery to accompany the event, not breathing a hint of a decision to anyone, save, of course, for Maitimo and Findekáno.

The ceremony began smoothly, Ñolofinwë’s remarks not stretching on too long, and bringing a smile to everyone’s face, even Fëanáro’s, as he praised his precious grandchild. (If there was one thing Ñolofinwë and Fëanáro could agree upon, it was how perfect, beautiful, and worthy of love their grandchild was.) The food was excellent, and even when Maitimo gently scolded Ilmafinwë for eating too much cake far too quickly, everyone was in high spirits.

And then, finally, Findekáno and Maitimo took their child’s hands and walked up to the beautiful gazebo around which Turukáno and Arakána had crafted.

“We are pleased to present our child this day,” Findekáno declared. “The most precious parts of both of us, beloved and brilliant and dear.”

“This child I named Ilmafinwë, for Míriel’s gift of star-silver hair,” Maitimo said, “and for the grandfather both my husband and I love and admire.”

Finwë lifted his glass with a smile. Indis took his hand, and they held one another with a hint of melancholy, mourning the nís they both had lost.

“And I named my child Artanár, for the fire of the fëa I felt grow within me, and in honor of my father Arakáno and my husband’s father Fëanáro,” Findekáno continued.

Fëanáro and Ñolofinwë exchanged a crooked smile, and Ñolofinwë shrugged while Fëanáro rolled his eyes. It was the kind of good-natured exchange that their sons could never have dreamed of before Ilmafinwë Artanár’s birth had brought them together in a friendly contest of grandfatherly affection.

“But today I will choose my own name,” Ilmafinwë Artanár piped up firmly. “Today I will share with all of you who I am, and who I have chosen to be!”

All the child’s family leaned forward, the anticipation in the air so thick that one of Aunt Rissi’s hunting knives could have sliced right through it.

“My kilmessë is...”

Starlight sparkled in the child’s eyes, a mischievous gleam that revealed how gratifying it was to have all the assembled royalty of the Noldor hanging on to every word spoken.

“...Ñillenalta!”

A brief pause. Then:

“Ñillenalta!” Findekáno cried, clapping his hands together.

“Ñillenalta!” Maitimo echoed, beaming.

“Ñillenalta!” exclaimed Finwë and Indis and Fëanáro and Ñolofinwë, and all the child’s aunts and uncles and Arakána too, and everyone else assembled, younger cousins Itaril and Tyelperinquar and Artaresto all, only the last of whom was old enough to have declared his own name. “Ñillenalta! Ñillenalta!”

“And furthermore,” Ñillenalta proclaimed, “I declare my nássë!”

The crowd quieted, listening intently. This part of the ceremony had much changed among the House of Finwë since Findekáno’s Naming Day. Now it was integrated into everyone’s announcement, in and out of Fëanáro’s immediate family, and the trend had spread throughout Tirion, welcoming in a renaissance of lethanássi thought, culture, and study among the Noldor. New terms had been coined, new identities discovered, old ones resurfaced, and it had become the fashion to not assign children nássi at birth at all, letting them choose how to define themselves without reservation or influence when their Naming Day came. It was an exciting world into which Ñillenalta had been born, and Findekáno was glad to have played some small part in bringing it about for his child and so many others.

“I am not a nér,” Ñillenalta said slowly and clearly, “at least, not like my fathers are néri, but I am more a nér than I am a nís. I have studied with Haru Fëanáro and with my parents, and though my nássë may shift and change in time, but for now I declare myself a perinér!”

Behind him, Findekáno beamed, while Maitimo scanned the gathered crowd for any signs of discontent. There was still a little confusion in the eyes of Finwë and Indis, but no resentment, and nothing but love and respect shone in anyone else’s smiles. Arakána glowed with excitement, glad to have someone else in the family who, like themself, was not fully nís nor nér.

“I will be a Prince of the Noldor, and use masculine forms of address,” Ñillenalta continued, “and my name shall be Ñillenalta Ilmafinwë Artanáro. But let my haruni Míriel’s hair remind you that I carry her spirit within me, and the -a of my name symbolize that my nássë is not fully nér, and do not be surprised that sometimes I will be your princess when I want to!”

Finwë and Indis seemed even more confused, but they applauded heartily nonetheless, and Maitimo resolved to send them a detailed letter explaining all the conversations he and Findekáno had shared with their child. Fëanáro rose to his feet with tears in his eyes, crying out his grandchild’s name, and Ñillenalta beamed, glad he had the support of someone who cared so deeply about his nássë.

“We are so proud of you, Ñillenalta,” Maitimo whispered, lifting Ñillenalta into his arms. Findekáno kissed the top of his silver head, adding, “We love you.”

“Love you too, Atya and Atto,” Ñillenalta said, his eyes sparkling. “Now when you tell me and the baby name stories, you can tell mine too!”

“Shh,” Findekáno whispered, tapping Ñillenalta gently on the nose. “That’s still a secret, Artanáro! We haven’t told anyone but you that you’re getting a little sibling!”

Ñillenalta pouted. For all he had given a very grand speech, he was still a child. “Can’t I tell Itaril and Tyelpa?”

“Not yet,” Maitimo said. “We don’t want to overshadow your big day by announcing you’ve got a sibling on the way, after all.”

Ñillenalta considered this. “Alright,” he said, “tomorrow! And I get to tell everyone!”

Findekáno and Maitimo exchanged a fond glance. “As you wish, dearest,” Findekáno agreed, and Ñillenalta clapped his hands gleefully before wriggling out of Maitimo’s arms and running into the crowd, where his grandparents awaited him, prepared to shower him with presents.

Maitimo sighed happily, gathering his husband into his arms, watching their child laugh and spin around in Nerdanel’s arms, embrace Arakána and exclaim they had kindred nássi, prance about wearing Morië’s dress and Curvo’s crown and Fëanáro’s jewels. He was the brightest jewel of all, their child, and Maitimo could not be happier.

“You can and you will,” Findekáno teased softly, poking playful fun at his husband’s thought and sharing a rather naughty one of his own. “Tonight after Ilma is asleep we shall celebrate in our own way, Russo.”

Maitimo blushed and kissed his forehead. “I cannot fathom being more joyous than I am now,” he admitted, “but...” His hands drifted to Findekáno’s belly, both their fëar glowing with warmth as they nurtured the growing soul within. “With you, and our children...I know you will teach me how.”


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Linguistic notes:

 

 

Harutar, Harunamil = “great-grandfather/mother” (my own translations)

nás = nonbinary / a third gender in a hypothetical elvish trinary gender system (a shortened form of “nássë,” aesthetically modeled after “nís” and “nér”)

Ilmafinwë is a headcanon-name I have for Gil-galad Russingonion when I give him with silver hair (and/or eyes); it means “starlight Finwë.” Ñillenalta is a Quenya translation of “Gil-galad” :)

Name suffixes for all characters were chosen very deliberately:
-o = masculine suffix
-ië = feminine suffix
-ë = often but not always a feminine suffix
-a = gender-neutral suffix; I have chosen to queer the suffix -a in the same way that -ë is feminine (aka it is often but not always a specifically genderqueer suffix); before they declare their nássë, children are simply named without a suffix, which will be added on to their name after their Naming Day

And finally, MANY thanks to ambarto / unknownlifeform for the construction of these gender terms:
- attanássë = bigender
- únássë = agender
- lethanássë = “transgender” (lit. “free nature”)
- lethanér, lethanís = “trans male/female”
- perinér = “demiboy” (“perinís” would be the fem. alt.); I added in the “i” for aesthetic purposes

 

Thanks for reading, and please comment if you enjoyed!
You can find me on tumblr @arofili.