TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Part One: Drowning	Sarisse_Silor (The_Spirits_Dance_Tonight)	2023-04-17	2023-04-17	1,726	1/1	1	19	0	114

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Not Rated	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Maglor | Makalaurë & Alcarinion (Original Character)	Maglor | Makalaurë, Alcarinion (Original Character), Maedhros | Maitimo (mentioned), The Valar (mentioned)	Spoilers for The Silmarillion, Father-Son Relationship, Suicide Attempt, Drowning, Emotional Hurt/Comfort, Fuck The Valar, Quenya Names, I did my best

SUMMARY
After Maglor throws his Silmaril into the waves, he contemplates following it to the bottom of the ocean. His last brother is dead, the Silmarils are gone, and with Morgoth defeated he has no purpose anymore.

Since he was a child, Alcarinion has been his second father, his teacher, his mentor, and his attendant. Although he is no fighter and has never participated in a single battle, he followed Fëanorians into exile out of sheer love and loyalty. They have made it this far; he isn't about to let Maglor die now.

(A short fic that serves as a prologue for a longer one in progress.)

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Part One: Drowning


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 1
Maglor stands looking out at the ocean, broken. His eyes are bloodshot, his face is coated in sweat and grime; his mouth hangs agape in a silent sob, and his breath comes in strangled gasps. 

The Silmarils are gone. His family is gone. His life is gone. 

Frigid waves roll in from an angry sea. They lap around his hips and spray his chest and face, breaking against him as though he were nothing but one of the jagged rocks on the shore. The water is ice-cold, but he hardly notices how his legs and feet have gone numb in his boots. His eyes are focused on the horizon, on the gray-blue expanse into which he had hurled the last Silmaril only minutes ago, searching for any light or glow or indication as to where it had landed, but there is nothing. 

There is nothing left of his father’s creation, nothing to show for centuries of bloodshed and destruction, nothing left of the family he held so dear. 

Well, almost nothing. 

A large wave crashes into his chest, and Maglor’s knees give way. The heavy clothing and armor he wears drags him down, and at first, as panic sets in, he flails desperately in vain attempts to keep his head above water. 

Then he stops. 

Would it not be a fitting end for a son of Feänor, Maglor thinks, to drown alongside the last of the Silmarils? Would it not be poetic, in a way, for a Kinslayer to perish beneath the same sea he first spilled the blood of his kin in Alqualondë? 

Fighting every natural survival impulse, he forces himself to let out the breath he had been holding. By the time he finally draws water into his lungs, it feels as though he has been sinking for an eternity. Everything is hazy, then dark, and as Maglor descends into unconsciousness, he fails to notice the boots splashing behind him or the strong arms around his waist. 

Maglor comes back to life with a splutter, lying prone on the rocky shore. He rolls over onto his side, supporting himself on one elbow, chest heaving as he coughs up mouthful after mouthful of water. His lungs ache, his stomach feels uncomfortably full, and every passage from his sinuses to his windpipe burns like he had been just drowning in lava. 

A firm hand finds its way around his chest, easing him up into a sitting position while another rubs gentle circles on his back. 

“Alcare?” Maglor’s voice is hoarse and he still cannot seem to stop coughing as he turns his head slightly to look upon the owner of the hands. He doesn’t really need to; he already knows who it is beside him, but laying eyes on him gives him the slightest bit of comfort. 

He followed, even now, even when there is nothing left. 

Kneeling on the ground, Alcarinion still looms over Maglor like a watchtower. He is tall for a Ñoldor, surpassing even Maedhros in height, with golden eyes that burn with a mixture of concern and relief. He is soaked to the skin, long brown hair hanging heavy from his head, sticking to the side of his neck and his alabaster cheeks. 

“Oh, little love,” Alcarinion murmurs softly as Maglor moves to rest against his chest. He smooths black hair off of the Fëanorian’s face and drapes his own traveling cloak over his shoulders. “I am so sorry.” 

Maglor has never found a title that perfectly encompassed everything that Alcarinion is to him. The idea of bestowing an inadequate one upon him has always felt wrong, almost unfair in a sense, as though he were somehow denying the older nér deserved credit or recognition. 

It wasn’t always difficult. Maedhros and Maglor were not quite teenagers when Fëanor brought him into the household at Finwë’s suggestion as a tutor and a caretaker. Their father was always working and their mother was heavily pregnant with their third brother; High King Finwë had no time to chase his grandsons around, especially since he had his own young son to look after. 

Thus, the two oldest brothers spent most of the day in Alcarinion’s company. He taught them to read and write, how to identify common plants and animals, and how to understand basic mathematics. He got along with both of them, but Maglor formed a special sort of attachment with his teacher. Unlike Maedhros and the brothers that came after him, he did not share the same kind of fiery personality that would make his father so infamous centuries later. Fëanor was so brash, so temperamental, that he sometimes frightened his second son. 

And so, Maglor found himself gravitating more toward the quiet, gentle Alcarinion as a paternal figure instead. He was devastated when he reached adulthood and his education was deemed complete, but his mentor stuck by him nonetheless, taking up a role that was closer to an advisor or a secretary instead. When Fëanor and his family were exiled to Formenos, Alcarinion accompanied them, and on the night they swore that dreadful oath and departed for Middle Earth, he followed Maglor faithfully without even being asked. 

“My grandfather is dead, and I am no longer a child that needs watching,” Maglor had told him as he hurriedly packed his things for the journey. “You need not accompany us into the unknown.” 

“Hush, hinya,” Alcarinion replied briskly, “do not waste your time with such ridiculous thoughts. Wherever you go, I shall follow.”

In Middle Earth, Maedhros would introduce Alcarinion as his brother’s attendant. He helped Maglor don and doff his armor and accompanied him to speak with other leaders of the Noldor; he patched up minor wounds, cleaned the blood off of Maglor’s clothing, and mended his clothing. He sat with him on those long, dark nights and soothed away the nightmares with gentle words and softly sung lullabies. 

In private, he calls him many different things. 

Alcare, the first element of his name, a Quenya word meaning radiance .
Meldonya, “my friend.”
Ñolmo, “wise person.”
Sometimes even Atya, the kind of affectionate version of “father” that he had never been comfortable assigning to Fëanor. 

“You ought to have left me to drown,” Maglor says, the last word partially cut off. He doubles over as his stomach twists, feeling calloused fingertips gather his hair and brush it away from his face as he vomits up what seems like more water than should even be possible.

“Do not be ridiculous, Makalaurë,” Alcarinion says in that cool way he always does, dismissing the suggestion with a soft click of his tongue and a shake of his head that seemed oddly juxtaposed with the subject of conversation; as if instead of suggesting that he be left to die on the rocky shores of Middle Earth, they were back in Tiron and a much younger Maglor had just asked if fish spoke Quenya. 

“You did not swear the Oath, Alcare.” The Fëanorian keeps his eyes trained on the ground. “I am certain they would allow you back into Valinor.” 

“I swore an oath,” the older Noldo replies lightly, “it likely matters not that it was to you, not your father.” 

“You could still inquire.” Maglor tries to sit up, but the bile rising in his throat again keeps him doubled over. “You deserve to live in peace.” 

“Hush, Makalaurë.” Alcarinion’s voice is still even, but there is a sharper undertone to it. “Stop spitting up such nonsense and focus on spitting up the seawater in your stomach instead.”

It was not until later, when the shock and adrenaline had worn off, that Maglor finally looked down and realized just how severely the Silmaril had burned his hands. 

He hadn’t known how to feel at first; he still doesn’t. 

A fire is crackling at the mouth of the small seaside cave that Alcarinion had carried Maglor into a few hours prior. His wet clothes are still drying, so he sits beside the flames, mostly naked except for his jewelry and cloak, head resting on his knees. 

Alcarinion has been tending to his hands since the afternoon, and the sun has long since slipped below the horizon. Maglor has glanced up once or twice, but the sight of his own bones surrounded by peeling skin and blackened, charred flesh makes his stomach turn. The burns are severe enough that he cannot feel what his companion is doing, and tired as he is from the day’s ordeals, he closes his eyes and drifts in and out of fitful reverie. 

He is grateful that in his current state of exhaustion, he is unable to clearly process Maedhros’s death. 

“I will never play the harp again, will I,” he asks wearily some time later when his hands are bandaged.

“I am not that fool Mandos or his useless brother, Makalaurë,” Alcarinion replies, not looking up from the bowlful of herbs he is mashing into a poultice. There is a bitterness to his voice. “I am no prophet.” 

“You should be careful what you say. They could be listening.” 

 “I doubt they can hear me, what with their heads so far up their asses.” 

“They defeated Morgoth.” Maglor closes his eyes again. “We should be thankful for that, at least.”

“Thankful?” Alcarinion snorts as he turns to add more wood to the fire, his words dripping with barely contained fury. “Certainly, the words of a Half-Elf finally moved the mighty Valar to do what the murder of King Finwë and the deaths of thousands of Eldar did not.” 

Maglor nods mutely, taken aback. His companion’s dislike of the Valar has never been a secret, but has never been prone to outbursts of anger. 

Alcarinion brings his charge’s dry clothes over and begins to redress him. As if he knows the unspoken question on his lips, he says, “I loved him too, you know. Not as deeply as I love you. But I loved him.” 

Unshed tears in the corners of his eyes sparkle in the flickering firelight. He finishes with the last buttons and eases Maglor back onto a thin bed of blankets, laying his cloak over top of him and smoothing out locks of tangled black hair with his fingers. 

“Rest now, little love,” he whispers gently. “There will be time for worry and grief later.”

“Sing to me?” 

“Of course, love. Always.”


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
<LINK> If you want to hear me sarcastically retell the Silmarillion, you can find that here, along with a lot of Valar bashing. </LINK>