TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Tea Party of the Age	Professional_Pirate_Siren	2024-04-30	2024-04-30	2,086	1/1	0	9	2	119

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Not Rated	Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien, The Lord of the Rings - J. R. R. Tolkien, The Lord of the Rings - All Media Types

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Maglor/Maglor's Wife (Tolkien), Indis & Nerdanel (Tolkien), Anairë & Eärwen & Nerdanel (Tolkien), Findis & Írimë | Lalwen, Indis (Tolkien) & Original Female Character(s)	Maglor's Wife (Tolkien), Indis (Tolkien), Nerdanel (Tolkien), Eärwen (Tolkien), Anairë (Tolkien), Írimë | Lalwen (Tolkien), Findis (Tolkien), Maglor (Tolkien), House of Finwë	Mentioned Maglor (Tolkien), Good Parent Nerdanel (Tolkien), Chaotic Lalwende, Women Being Awesome, Giving Women Personalities, We Stan Good Mother In Laws, Valinor (Tolkien), Aman | The Undying Lands (Tolkien), Tea Parties, Pre-First Age of Arda (Tolkien), Fëanor Being Fëanor (Tolkien), Wedding Planning, Quenya Names, I hate typing Quenya names, Finwean Ladies, POV Irime | Lalwen, Finwean Women for the Win

SUMMARY
In where Indis hosts a tea party and Maglor's future wife finds her place amongst the Queens of the House of Finwë.

Alternatively, I give some personality to the Finwean women.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Tea Party of the Age


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
Pay no attention to the weird lingo, I can't consistently keep tenses or tone half the time.


CHAPTER 1
YT 1432

It really wasn’t fair. Lalwendë snorted into her teacup, hiding her amused grin with the porcelain. “Not an interrogation” her ass. Her lady mother Queen Indis had invited the soon-to-be newest addition to the royal Ñoldorin family to an private tea soiree, since the wedding was in four months but they’d barely gotten to know the new addition. It was supposed to be casual, just a way for Indis to get to know the first elf to marry a grandchild of Finwë. But unfortunately, Findis found out about her mother’s plans and blabbed to Ëarwen, who blabbed to everyone else.

So now, instead of a isolated tea meet-and-greet, it had spiraled into a tea party gathering, with the Queen Indis, Lady Anairë, the Falmari Princess Ëarwen (aka swan-brain), the daughters of Finwë, Findis and Lalwendë respectively, and the Lady Nerdanel, probably to keep the peace. They were some the most powerful women in Ñoldor society, and in all Elvish circles in Aman.

All of them, and poor Kánafinwë’s betrothed. No wonder she looked so terrified, she was being ambushed.

Her only nieces Írissë and Artanis had also wanted to attend, but Lalwendë declined to not add further stress on her future law step-niece. And by declined, she conveniently just didn’t tell them when and where.

Annavairë was a lithe elleth, with glittering black, almost resembling the Ñoldor, framing her delicate face and lovely silvery grey eyes. In fact, Lalwendë would have believed her part of the Ñoldor if she hadn’t known she was instead half Vanyar and Falmari. Annavairë’s dark red dress of summer silks suited her pale complexion well, wearing the colors of her future law family. She sat rigidly next to her future law mother Nerdanel, who after hundreds of years of interacting with her own in laws, was comfortable conversing casually with them. Unlike her husband and sons, Nerdanel bore no ill will or feud with the Queen Indis, who loved Nerdanel like her other law daughters.

Lalwendë was lucky she grew up knowing her husband’s family, so she avoided the law family interrogation. She was actually fairly certain her husband’s family loved her more than him.

“I told the stuffy old councilor to take his opinions and shove it up his arse!” Anairë recalled her latest court meeting passionately to her amused audience. “In polite words, of course,” She assured her law mother.

“Oh no, I know exactly who you are referring,” Indis replied with a mischievous tinkle of her own in her eye. “There is not a bone of humility in him.”

“I’d conveniently just forget to inform him of the next council session,” Nerdanel snickered.

Lalwendë matched Nerdanel with a hyena-laugh of her own, “Have I ever told you that you are my favorite law sister?”

Nerdanel’s response of “Multiple times” came as Lalwendë narrowly avoided Anairë’s swift kick under the table.

“Oh! We’re being rude!” Ëarwen suddenly gasped in Annavairë’s direction, who immediately shrank under the new attention. “How are you faring, with the wedding so soon?”

“Well enough,” Annavairë responded only after a moment’s pause. “I think Káno has been more frantic about the preparations than I have.”

Findis sighed fondly, “Naturally, Kánafinwë always was the most dramatic of my elder brother’s sons and cared the most about fancy events.”

“All of our sons are equally dramatic,” Nerdanel side eyed the golden-haired princess. “The time your son cried for a week because he used the supposedly organic lotion from that rather dubious market stand and turned orange?”

Findis grumbled as she took another swig of her tea (Lalwendë caught a whiff of possibly something stronger), “Do not remind me, I personally had to drag Laurefindil out of the bath because he practically tried to scrub his skin off.”

Annavairë looked rather disturbed discovering that piece of information about the noble princes she knew from afar.

“That’s tame,” Anairë claimed with a wicked grin in Nerdanel’s direction, who looked at her fellow law sister suspiciously. “Remember when Kánafinwë was so scared of losing in the harpist contest against Findaráto that he tried snuck a tonic in Findaráto’s drink to make him lose his voice but accidentally giving the entire Ñoldorin orchestra stomach issues?”

Nerdanel fiercely chucked a scone at Anairë’s head, who had spent enough time with Nerdanel and successfully deflected the pastry attack with her plate, as the other women burst into giggles, while Annavairë’s face screamed of how appalled she was at her betrothed’s actions.

“Peace, my daughters,” Indis smiled to reign them in. “Nothing will ever trump the occasion when Aikanáro was late and forgot to put on his trousers and rushed into the great hall with nothing past his waist.”

Ëarwen shrieked in indignant embarrassment as the rest of the table howled with laughter, even Annavairë as that incident was rather recent and she had still been courting Kánafinwë and witnessed it for herself. Lalwendë laughed so hard she was wheezing and it hurt her stomach to breathe. They would have calmed down faster if Nerdanel hadn’t sent a sneaky look to Lalwendë and they burst into hysterical laughter again.

 “Oh, how I’ve missed these little gatherings of ours,” Ëarwen beamed happily. “We really should do these more often.”

“Well, you know how busy we are,” Findis sighed. “Nerdanel has her sculpting projects, you have your duties in Alqualondë, Mother is the Queen, and Anairë and I have to keep the palace from burning down.”

“No thanks to our idiotic husbands,” Nerdanel huffed into her cup. “That includes my sons, so this is your warning Anna.”

Annavairë only appeared faintly alarmed but smiled anyways. “I appreciate your concern, but I’ve already planned for my future house’s aesthetic, and I need Kánafinwë’s money, so I’m afraid he’s stuck with me.”

Lalwendë chortled in delight, “Káno’s bride has bite to her, I approve!”

A light blush scattered on Annavairë’s cheeks at the approval.

“Anna has four older brothers, she will handle herself well with six new law brothers,” Nerdanel thumped Annavairë’s back with a hearty grin and an oomph from her victim. “She is the muse to my son’s musician talent,” Nerdanel continued her bragging.

Ëarwen perked up brightly at Nerdanel’s words. “Do you sing?”

“I do, Princess,” Annavairë said with a touch of shyness. “But not often, especially not in public.”

“I would be honored if you would perform for us one day,” Ëarwen smiled warmly, “And please, call me Ëarwen, or even Aunt. We are to be family, after all.”

Annavairë looked a bit starstruck at her princess’ request. “O-of course, I’d be honored.”

“How is Valmar these days?” Findis asked with a hint of wistfulness. “It’s been a number of years since I visited last.”

“It remains ever the same, with great poetic and philosophical debates every other week and many art tradeshows,” Annavairë relayed back.

Lalwendë nodded solemnly. “Ah, so it ever remains boring as hell.”

Indis snorted behind a well-placed napkin and Anairë made no attempts to hide her own impish grin.

“Truthfully, my most fondest memories of my childhood come from Alqualondë, though I mainly grew up in Valmar,” Annavairë admitted. “I preferred sailing and chasing gulls on the beach to studying or learning lady pursuits.”

“Oh, as did I!” Ëarwen agreed earnestly. “There’s nothing better than sand underneath the feet and salt in your hair!”

Nerdanel coughed into her napkin with words that suspiciously sounded like “pick me.”

Annavairë giggled softly behind her teacup, then bit her bottom lip, which to Lalwendë indicated she had a question; maybe she finally worked up the courage.

“May I speak plainly?” Annavairë requested, setting her teacup down to meet their eyes.

Indis’ green eyes sparkled. “Of course.”

“Is it a burden to marry a Prince?”

“I think a better phrasing is marrying a Prince from the House of Finwë,” Anairë answered with a wry smile. “And it can be quite rewarding but also exceptionally exhausting.”

Murmurs of agreement resounded in the pavilion where they had gathered, as four of the six elleths had indeed, married into the family.

“It’s no easy task to marry a Finwion,” Ëarwen admitted, “And I am a princess in my own right.”

“They are bold, prideful, passionate, and full of love,” Findis chimed in. “They burn so brightly, and the brighter they burn, the dumber they are.”

Lalwendë couldn’t resist laughing, even when Findis did what Anairë had failed to do earlier and kicked her under the table.

“My sister speaks truly,” Lalwendë agreed after she had the breath to speak coherently. “The scions of Finwë are noble and true, but collectively share three braincells. But,” Lalwendë smiled kindly, “Marriage is hard, no matter who you marry. It’s easy to be in love, it’s much harder to love.”  

Indis took Annavairë’s hand gently. “It is not the circumstances of our birth, or the blood in our veins that decide how worthy we are to marry. It is the choices we make and the vows we promise in our heart that define a marriage.”

“You are kind, spirited and can keep my son in line,” Nerdanel added with a reassuring smile. “That alone makes you a worthy bride for my Makalaurë, and I am proud to call you my law daughter, Melmewendë.”  

Annavairë glowed bashfully at the praise with the use of her amilessë, while Anairë’s eyes shot to Nerdanel, glittering with suspicion and thought.

“This gathering is to welcome you into our family, our circle of women and our secret court,” Indis informed her, “Should you ever need any advice, you need only to ask.”

Relief melted on Annavairë’s face, and she abruptly embraced the Queen, before releasing her like she was shocked by lightning.

“Apologies,” Annavairë murmured abashedly, “It was most improper.”

“Nonsense!” Indis declared gaily. “I never say no to hugs, especially from my granddaughters. Eru knows my other granddaughters do not give me enough.”

The rest of the tea party went rather smoothly in Lalwendë’s opinion. Only two teacups shattered that time; once when Ëarwen’s clumsy fingers dropped her favorite blue and white cup, and once when Lalwendë elbowed Anairë’s cup off the table in retaliation for insulting her joke. Annavairë left first, having wedding preparations to attend, but promised to accept the next invitation.

“What did your own husband have to say on the marriage?” Anairë pressed her law sister, once Annavairë had departed for her scheduled bridal wardrobe fitting.

Nerdanel’s smile turned sour as her eyes nearly imperceptivity darted towards Indis and back. Lalwendë grimaced, that told her everything about her elder (half) brother’s feelings on Annavairë.

“He will come around, eventually,” Nerdanel muttered the last bit in attempts to convince herself.

Anairë snorted sardonically, “He called her a worthless and unworthy half-breed, didn’t he?”

“Unfortunately, you practically nailed it,” Nerdanel huffed, stabbing her sandwich with her fork. “Worthless, because she is not a great artisan or craft-smith that he’d desire for his son. Unworthy, because she is not of Ñoldor blood and that she is of ‘commoner’ status.”

“Her father is Elemmírë, a great scholar and poet of the Vanyar, and her mother Haloissë is an exceptionally skilled painter of the Falmari,” Ëarwen argued in defense of Annavairë. “She may not be of the noble court, but she is not uneducated or unrefined, surely that can be enough for him.”

“Do you really think any of that appeals to my elder brother?” Findis retorted, angered by Fëanáro’s continued slights against her mother. “Only a great craft-smith of Ñoldor heritage would Fëanáro approve to marry one of our nephews.”

“I love my husband,” Nerdanel cut in, eyes of steel and voice of stone. “But I also love my son, and I love Annavairë.” She set her jaw, “He will accept Annavairë into his house, even if I have to force him to the wedding myself. I will handle my husband.”

Lalwendë would give every jewel she owned to see that fantasy come true. She made a motion to comment on how well Nerdanel had been handling her husband lately, but with one warning glance from her mother Indis, she refrained.

Despite the impeding drama she knew would arise from the wedding, Lalwendë look forward to officially bringing Annavairë Melmewendë Elemmíriel into the House of Finwë.

“You picked a good one, dearest nephew,” Lalwendë murmured.

That was a lie, of course. Her favorite nephew was Morifinwë, and that was because he always gave her a personalized gift in addition to a cut of his profits when she helped him cheat in cards.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
I was definitely half asleep writing the majority of this fic, and I don't even know where I was going with it. I think I was trying to show Melwen as a young adult before she married Maglor and had a bunch of bad shit happen to her. I'll figure it out (maybe).