TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
In the Bliss of Aman	Praisetotheunknown	2024-04-13	2024-04-16	5,251	4/14	14	24	4	386

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
General Audiences	Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Finwë & House of Finwë	Finwë (Tolkien), Maedhros (Tolkien), Fëanor (Tolkien), Nerdanel (Tolkien), Maglor (Tolkien), Other Character Tags to Be Added, Fingon (Tolkien), Fingolfin (Tolkien), Celegorm (Tolkien)	Fluff and Angst, started thinking about Finwe with each of his grandchildren and then this happened lol, Years of the Trees, Quenya Names, so here they all are in their finwean glory (or will be. eventually)

SUMMARY
Finwe with all his grandchildren, throughout his life, told through his eyes.

The order of chapters is the same as the birth order of the grandchildren (in my generally canon-compliant headcanon) from eldest to youngest.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Maitimo


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
A note on ages:

In most of my AUs, as well as canon-compliant fics like this one, I take the one-hundred-year point of maturity as about the human equivalent of a twenty-year-old, but take take the fifty-year point of maturity as about the human equivalent of a fifteen-year-old. Thus any ages under fifty in this may be multiplied by 3/10 to derive the intended human equivalent of physical and emotional maturity on an average (eg: 50 x (3/10) = 150/10 = 15).

Ages of maturity between fifty and a hundred may be found by adding 1/10 to 15 for every year of age above 50 (eg: 56 years old would be 15 + (6 x (1/10)) = 156/10 = 15.6 years of age). Thus a full year of human-equivalent ageing would take place over the span of ten years. After a hundred years I don't maintain a rate of ageing because it really ceases to matter, and changes depending on the individual's experiences (NoME maths notwithstanding in any case because I can't make sense of it lol).

Hope you enjoy!


CHAPTER 1
The first grandchild of Finwë is a wonder.

   Fëanáro holds the child out to him wordlessly, face still flushed with relief, eyes a little haunted by remnants of fear. Finwë looks him over (just in case anything has...happened), and once he is satisfied by his son's apparent composure and delighted grin, he takes his grandson into his arms.

   The child stares up at him with wide eyes, the same dark, flashing grey as his father's (and grandmother's). There are tufts of bright red hair, bright as Mahtan's, upon his head, and a faint, rosy hue in his pale cheeks (just as there is in his mother's). Finwë gazes at him, a soft blooming upon his lips, and the child, instead of crying, simply burbles.

   He is, perhaps, the fairest, loveliest child Finwë has ever seen. He admits to himself that perhaps he is biased, but it doesn't matter to him — he is still right.

   'He is beautiful,' Finwë whispers. His son and daughter-in-law beam up at him. Nerdanel looks flushed, but still bright. Lively. Healthy and well. 'Have you named him yet?'

   Nerdanel shakes her head at once, but Fëanáro raises his and says: 'Nelyafinwë'.

   His wife shoots him a hard look. He does not seem to notice.

   'Oh,' says Finwë. It is an odd choice of name, but the reasoning behind it is not hard to divine. Not at all.

   'Yes.' Fëanáro stares at him with a resolute expression, almost willing him to argue, and Finwë knows at once that the battle is lost.

   'Nelyafinwë, then,' he agrees, sighing softly. In his arms, the newly-named Nelyafinwë makes another soft noise, and Finwë hands him to Nerdanel.

   'I,' she says archly, holding her baby closer to her chest, 'shall wait a little until making my decision.'

   She names him Maitimo a month later.

***

   'Grandfather! Grandfather!'

   Finwë looks up from the frankly unholy piles of paperwork on his desk to find his eldest grandson looking at him over it. He notes that he is rather tall for his age, in a gangly sort of way that he might grow into soon enough.

   'Maitimo!' he exclaims, and gets up at once from behind his desk (he needs no other excuse to let his 'duties' lie).

   'No, please sit,' his grandson says, rather solemnly. 'I wished to discuss something important with you.'

   With a smile, Finwë sits back down. Whatever it is will most likely not be about the papers on his desk that all apparently deserve his attention. 'And what is the nature of this important thing?'

   Maitimo squares his shoulders, and pushes his (already quite neat) hair back before looking Finwë straight in the eye. 'I wish,' he says seriously, 'to learn about statecraft and kingship.'

   Finwë resolutely does not laugh. Maitimo is not yet forty.

   'I see,' he says instead, with equal seriousness. 'And why do you wish this?'

   'Well,' Maitimo says, eyes narrowing a little, 'I know that I am Father's heir, and that Father is yours. There's a lot of responsibility that comes with being a prince, so I thought it would be better to start earlier? If I knew more about statecraft from the beginning, I might...be a better prince in general.' He pauses, and stares down at his feet, face colouring a little. 'Only if you want to,' he finishes softly.

   Finwë does not know whether to laugh or cry — he is reasonably certain that Fëanáro himself has not attended court in the last few decades (unless absolutely necessary and with much wrangling on both his and Nerdanel's part). It is also unlikely that he would tell his son such a thing — he has to have heard it from some well-meaning, teasing courtier. Finwë has to admit, however, that his reasoning is put very gracefully — perhaps this might be something he would be skilled at, in the future.

   'Well, whoever has told you that isn't precisely wrong,' he remarks. 'But early certainly does not mean this early, Maitimo! You are yet to choose a craft or discipline of your own — you do not want to get embroiled in statecraft too early, before the opportunity to choose one passes — perhaps you may never get out of the court, or drown in floods of paperwork as I am right now.' He gestures to his many obligations and winks, drawing a small, startled laugh out of his grandson. 'After your fiftieth begetting-day, you can ask me again if you wish, and I will consider.'

   Maitimo frowns for a moment, and nods. 'That makes sense, Grandfather. Thank you — I'm sure I shall ask you again.'

   Finwë does not doubt it. But now that his grandson is here, he cannot just let him leave. 'But perhaps, to practise your strategy a little, in preparation for whenever you may join the court, we might play a game of chess?' It is a common pastime of theirs, and Finwë has yet to find a steadier or more steadily improving partner.

   His grandson beams, and agrees instantly.

***

Telperion is waxing, and Finwë is still awake, pacing the balcony of one of the many sitting rooms of the palace in Tirion. His head aches, and the breeze does little to calm him.

   He hears the sound of footsteps behind him, and turns to find Maitimo's tall figure standing there, still dressed in court attire.

   'Maitimo,' he says. 'Are you well?'

   'Anxious,' his grandson admits with a sigh, walking (sweeping, rather) slowly towards two chairs and a table in one corner of the balcony (kept there to offer one a view of the bustling, ever-awake city as they sipped tea or wine). He turns and bids Finwë to sit beside him.

   'It's Melkor's release, isn't it?' Finwë asks as soon as he sits down.

   'It is not that I mistrust Lord Melkor, my lord,' says Maitimo, and Finwë raises a hand to stop him. He almost regrets the thoroughness of his grandson's courtly education — but he has only himself to blame for that, as he has, for the most part, administered it personally.

   'You need not speak as though we are in court, grandson,' Finwë tells him. 'I don't trust him either.'

   'He may have changed,' Maitimo murmurs noncommittally. 'You would know it better, of course, for you were there to live through his torments across the sea. But that's not what bothers me most about his release.'

   'Oh?' Finwë narrows his eyes. 'What is it, then?'

   'How Father is taking it.'

   Finwë lets out a long sigh. 'Yes, yes. That is part of why it worries me so. Fëanáro is rarely wrong about people. Except...'

   'We are not in court, Grandfather,' Maitimo reminds him, his lips quirking into a smile. 'But that is the cusp of it. Just as it is with Queen Indis—'

   'She would not forbid you to call her Grandmother, you know. She would rather like it.'

   'Grandmother, then,' he amends, but perhaps only to please him? It does not matter. 'It is just as he is with Grandmother Indis, and Uncle Ñolofinwë — he wants, for some reason, to think ill of the Valar, and now he has found it in Melkor, valid may it be this once.'

   'So,' Finwë says slowly, for he is unsure if he understands what he is being told, 'he has turned against the Valar? At a level comparable to his dislike of Indis?'

   Maitimo blinks wearily. 'I suppose so,' he admits. 'He speaks of broken promises and ignored impermanence and dangerous lies, but most often it is about Melkor. How his release is a crime against the people that escaped his grasp. How he does not deserve the mercy of the Valar, and that it only proves that Aman is not, and has never been, a land of joy and bliss. He is speaking of breaking his ties to Aulë, even — he says that he doesn't wish to consort with traitors.' At this Finwë cannot hold back his gasp — Aulë has ever been a staunch friend to the Ñoldor — more so to Fëanáro than anyone!

   'Quite,' Maitimo continues. 'He and Mother are always arguing about it — horribly. I fear sometimes that one of them will fly from the house in anger one day, and not return. And what then of the twins? Of all of us?'

   'Is it so very bad?'

   Maitimo nods dejectedly. Finwë's headache has, if anything, become worse.

   He cannot help but wish that he had not burdened Maitimo with matters of the court so soon — but he is, a little selfishly, glad that he is not alone in this mire.

   'I am sorry,' says Maitimo at last, rising as if to leave. 'I did not mean to burden you further.'

   'No!' Finwë exclaims, clasping his hand, and Maitimo reluctantly sits back down. 'You are my grandson, and a prince of the Ñoldor, and a colleague of mine besides. You may burden me as much as you wish with all the troubles of the world — goodness knows I have it coming after all the matters I've come to you to deal with.' He laughs softly. 'Whatever is to come, and I fear that it may not be as fair as we hope, it will be infinitely better if we all stand together against it. And you are good at that, are you not, bringing people together?'

   'I suppose,' says Maitimo, ever shy to accept compliments of this sort.

   'You are,' Finwë insists. 'Which means that you cannot stand alone either. You can always talk to me — or to anyone you choose to trust — with whatever matter burdens your mind.' He blinks. 'But Telperion is reaching its zenith. Let us talk of lighter matters — I doubt either of us will get any sleep now.'

   Maitimo nods, and they sit there companionably, talking of unimportant things until the Mingling. Both of them leave the balcony with lighter minds on the next day.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Please feel free to point out any errors you notice, and I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments!


CHAPTER 2 TITLE
Makalaure


CHAPTER 2 INITIAL NOTES
A note on ages:

In most of my AUs, as well as canon-compliant fics like this one, I take the one-hundred-year point of maturity as about the human equivalent of a twenty-year-old, but take take the fifty-year point of maturity as about the human equivalent of a fifteen-year-old. Thus any ages under fifty in this may be multiplied by 3/10 to derive the intended human equivalent of physical and emotional maturity on an average (eg: 50 x (3/10) = 150/10 = 15).

Ages of maturity between fifty and a hundred may be found by adding 1/10 to 15 for every year of age above 50 (eg: 56 years old would be 15 + (6 x (1/10)) = 156/10 = 15.6 years of age). Thus a full year of human-equivalent ageing would take place over the span of ten years. After a hundred years I don't maintain a rate of ageing because it really ceases to matter, and changes depending on the individual's experiences (NoME maths notwithstanding in any case because I can't make sense of it lol).

Hope you enjoy!


CHAPTER 2
Kanafinwë is very loud for a child of two years, Finwë thinks. In fact, he is very loud for anyone at all — yet for all his impassioned screams, his voice is very sweet.

   He is trying to clamber up onto Finwë's armchair right now — his small hands bat at the chair and the papers in Finwë's hands, trying to find a hold. Finwë has always made a point of keeping his personal library a fun space for children, ever since Fëanáro displayed such a keen interest in it as a child. There are many toys and games for children of varying ages, as well as blankets scattered on armchairs for the odd child (or even grown adult) falling asleep in the middle of a serious matter of study. But Kanafinwë clearly wants nothing but his grandfather.

   From somewhere near his shin, Finwë hears a loud thump as Kanafinwë sits down at the foot of the armchair. Then he feels a tap on his knee, and hears an imperious command: 'Up!'

   'I am reading something of great import,' he says, trying to hide the laughter in his voice. 'I'm sure there are some other things that might interest you. The thing of import is also, quite frankly, boring.'

   'Up!' says Kanafinwë again, voice ringing through the room. 'Now!'

   'I am working,' he says gently. 'Your brother must be here somewhere too, hm? How about you go find him?'

   Kanafinwë's eyes widen, and he lies back down upon the ground, hands raised in the air.

   'Up?' he asks, tremulously. His mouth open s i n preparation to wail.

   Finwë suddenly feels a horrible pang of guilt. He sets aside the report and gets up.

   'Oh, darling, you needn't cry! I spoke in jest!' He bends down to lift his grandson into his arms, and settles back into the armchair. Kanafinwë buries his head into Finwë's chest, and his hand in Finwë's loose hair, distress all but gone. Finwë pats his head fondly.

   'Now, if you'd like to fall asleep here, I can read aloud,' he says.

   'Yes please,' says Kanafinwë from the folds of Finwë's robes.

   He smiles and takes his report up again. '"Olwë's people have reported observing winds of unus u ally high speeds, and the opinions of the Maiar they have consulted with concur with their findings; it is likely that a storm of greater proportions than is usual in Aman is to hit the coasts. Travel between Tirion and Alqualondë may need to be halted for a week. The repercussions of this delay on trade are predicted to be..."'

   Kanafinwë falls asleep in mere moments.

***

Finwë is still rather shocked at how quickly his grandchildren grow, even after having had the fortune to have so many already (and more to come!). He remembers still when Makalaurë was but a child, begging to be held and making only the music of a squealing child. And here he is now, not yet fifty (precocious like his father, in that), performing for the first time a recital, and that too something as ambitious as a tale of two voices, composed and written entirely by him. He feels he cannot be prouder, and he has not heard a word yet.

   Not that he needs to, of course, to know that it shall be brilliant. Makalaurë's voice is often the voice that rings in Finwë's house — singing as he plays upon the instruments there, too grand and large to fit into even a Prince's home in Tirion, and as he rifles through sheafs of compositions (Vanyarin, Telerin, Ñoldorin, and even some Valarin Songs — basic ones, yet his skill is such that he may attempt even one and succeed, where others his age (and many times that) would not be able to pronounce a word). Finwë has heard its impossible beauty too many times to ever doubt its effect upon an audience — especially one so unprepared for it as this one.

   Makalaurë ascends the stage, and the crowd falls silent. Finwë can see a few incredulous faces from where he sits, but many are watching with anticipation. Among the people gathered, he knows, there has always been talk of Fëanáro's talents, and thus the expected talents of his children, as well as hushed whispers of a sweet voice running in the family.

   Unlike most performers, Makalaurë delivers no preamble to his work. Instead, he simply takes his harp (a small, hand-held thin g, but very well-made ) and begins to sing.

   And Finwë loses himself in the music.

   The tale takes place over only a night — not that they kept strict count by such things by Cuivi énen , where the story is set . It is that of a huntress, gone away in the star-studded dark of Endórë to find prey , while her lover waits for her with bated breath. Dread creatures prowl the lands, and the singer fears both for his love, and for himself. He calls to his love ever so often, and her replies (sung by Makalaurë also) get quieter. And then he feels...something else. A creature behind him. His calls get louder, as do her responses, and she returns without game, drawn by his cries, to shoot down the Orc that takes her lover, but only moments after his flesh has stilled. It is a darkly familiar tale to Finwë, of things that happened to his friends (now dead), of things that almost happened to him. The soft keen in the music, the small slips into the Eldarin of the Hither Lands, which few still know as their cradle-tongue, are all so heartbreaking that he is crying by the end, too stunned to applaud until he is roused into it by his secretary, who sits beside him.

   The crowd is awash in awe and tears, and Finwë, for he is much the same, cannot be any prouder.

***

   'Makalaurë?'

   Finwë does not often expect his second grandson to visit him in his study. It is even more unusual for him to be so subdued.

   'I just...' he sighs. 'I need advice. It is about a maiden.'

   Finwë sits up straight in his desk. 'Oh?'

   'I've been wishing to court her for some time — she is of the Falmari, and a truly skilled player of the drums,' he says. A drummer of the Falmari! Finwë thinks. 'And besides she is a relation of Olwë's.'

   Finwë beams. 'Everything appears to be in order, then!' He truly thinks his grandson could not have chosen better, from what he knows.

   Makalaurë sighs. 'It is only...I do not know how to approach her.'

   Finwë ponders this for a moment. He does not think himself an expert on love, but this seems a little obvious. 'Would music as heavenly as yours not enchant the soul of a fellow musician, so to speak?' Makalaurë's eyes unfocus in a way too familiar to Finwë, that heralds the coming of inspiration. 'I wouldn't actually enchant her, mind you,' he adds, just to be safe.

   'Alright,' Makalaurë mumbles, and crosses from his side of the desk to embrace him. 'Thank you!' Then, in the same daze, he departs.

   Finwë wishes him luck in his mind, but does not call out. Some things are best kept secret until the time is right to reveal them.


CHAPTER 2 FINAL NOTES
Please feel free to point out any errors you notice, and I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments!


CHAPTER 3 TITLE
Findekano


CHAPTER 3 INITIAL NOTES
A note on ages:

In most of my AUs, as well as canon-compliant fics like this one, I take the one-hundred-year point of maturity as about the human equivalent of a twenty-year-old, but take take the fifty-year point of maturity as about the human equivalent of a fifteen-year-old. Thus any ages under fifty in this may be multiplied by 3/10 to derive the intended human equivalent of physical and emotional maturity on an average (eg: 50 x (3/10) = 150/10 = 15).

Ages of maturity between fifty and a hundred may be found by adding 1/10 to 15 for every year of age above 50 (eg: 56 years old would be 15 + (6 x (1/10)) = 156/10 = 15.6 years of age). Thus a full year of human-equivalent ageing would take place over the span of ten years. After a hundred years I don't maintain a rate of ageing because it really ceases to matter, and changes depending on the individual's experiences (NoME maths notwithstanding in any case because I can't make sense of it lol).

Hope you enjoy!


CHAPTER 3
Finwë feels a hard tug on his hair, and looks down at the child in his arms.

   'Findekáno, one must not pull on their grandfather's hair so,' he says, gently pulling his braid out from his grandson's fingers.

   'Is he pulling on hair again?' Ñolofinwë appears at his side, and peers down at his son. 'He's been pulling on all sorts of things of late — he almost disrobed me in the Council yesterday.' Finwë resists a small chuckle.

   'He is peculiarly insistent on holding on to things, isn't he?' Findekáno stares up at them with bright, innocent eyes, twinkling in his slightly flushed face. 'Has Anairë decided on a name for him yet?'

   'She says she shall take her time,' replies Ñolofinwë. Finwë nods, for he knows his daughter-in-law well enough to know that in matters such as these she can be slow and deliberate in coming to a decision. 'But she says she has had some foresight, of late.'

   'Of what sort? If she does not mind it being known.' People — and especially mothers — are often private about their visions.

   'She does not mind it being known, but does not know what to make of it.' Ñolofinwë looks down at his son again, and Finwë follows his gaze down to the baby's fist, which has curled now around one of Finwë's fingers. 'She says he will be valiant, and 'hold on, even if it kills him', whatever that means.' His face is sombre.

   What could be there in the life of this child, in Aman, wonders Finwë, that might necessitate killing? He does not wish to dwell on it, but it has wormed its way into his thoughts regardless.

   Finwë brushes it aside and says instead, 'Well, valour is a virtue, is it not? He shall certainly do great things.'

***

   'Grandfather, look what I can do!'

   Finwë flinches and runs towards the sound, more or less anticipating danger.

   In the gardens around the palace in Tirion there is a wild-garden — a garden full of gnarled trees and thornbushes the the likes of which are rare to see outside of the Hither Lands or Oromë's forests, which are made to look as the lands that lie East.

   Findekáno clings by his fingertips to a high branch of the tallest tree in this garden, and his foot waves about to find a hold. When he finds one, his hands uncurl from the branch above him and reach further up. Finwë bites a gasp back as he runs through the gates.

   'Findekáno,' he says, trying to sound stern rather than panicked (though his mind is filled with unpleasant visions of blood and broken limbs), 'come down, please.'

   'But I'm nearly there!' he says. 'Maitimo got this high, and I want to show him I can go higher up.'

   Finwë gasps, and resolves to have a word with his eldest about what he lets his children get away with. 'But it is dangerous, and I shall tell your cousin so too.' He must be here somewhere, Finwë thinks. 'Neither of you are to be climbing so far up trees. You are both far too young to be getting up to such things.'

   'Then can we try when we're older?'

   Finwë nods — anything to get him down .

   'Alright, then,' says Findekáno, and swings from the branch above his head. Then he lets go and shouts, 'Catch me!'

   He is laughing as he falls, and laughing still when Finwë catches him, heart in throat. 'Never,' he says icily, 'are you to do that again. Going to Mandos isn't a mere outing.'

   His grandson's eyes widen with terror at that, and he nods. Finwë holds him to his chest for a long moment, stroking his hair and whispering comforts to him until his solemn expression is gone, and in its place is a smile. Then he sets him down and bids him to go play somewhere safer.

***

Findekáno has shaped up to be a fine swordsman.

   There is no one in the small, dusty clearing save for Finwë, his son, and his grandson. It is their custom to spar outside often, for Findekáno relishes the athleticism, Ñolofinwë always has stresses to take out onto something, and Finwë enjoys watching them fight simply for the sake of beauty, with graceful movements that need not be focused on evading some horror.

   Finwë watches as Findekáno spars with wooden sword (even these carved intricately, more ceremonial than for swordplay) in hand, his body dancing lithely to avoid his father's blows. He would make a fine warrior, muses Finwë. And I am proud of him for it.

   Then Ñolofinwë has his wooden blade at his son's throat, and they both spring apart, bowing to each other and then walking towards Finwë, voices raised in enthusiastic discussion of techinque.

   'Grandfather,' says Findekáno, quite suddenly, 'will you spar, for once?'

   It is true that Finwë does not like the hilt of a sword in his hand, that he loses himself a little when he does. But what harm can it do? Perhaps it shall be a good test, he thinks, already unbuttoning his outer robes. 'Alright,' he calls out. Ñolofinwë smiles, passing him his sword, and Finwë remembers their own 'swordfights' with sticks, from when Ñolofinwë was younger and had fewer creases upon his forehead. It takes Finwë only a minute to go into the clearing, and they begin.

   If Findekáno fights with grace, more a dancer than a warrior, then Finwë's blows are more accustomed to land to kill, and his movements are darts rather than anything sinuous. There have been rules made for swordplay of late, now that it is little more than a performance, but the desperation to live after the fight is hard to ignore, and Finwë cannot lay it aside, hard as he tries, when he holds a sword. He does not bother with rules.

   He hews Findekáno's feet from beneath him in less than a minute and pokes at his abdomen, and then only does the wildness fade a little from his eyes.

   'Could you show me how you did that?' Findekáno is smiling far too widely for being soundly defeated, his eyes bright with curiosity.

   Finwë sets his wooden sword down and shakes his head. 'No use in a competition,' he says. ‘ I wouldn’t repeat any of those moves in a formal competition, in fact, and hope that anyone who does so would be disqualified.’

   His mind goes on, to himself: you are not a warrior, Findekáno.

   And I am glad that you shall never need to be one.


CHAPTER 3 FINAL NOTES
Please feel free to point out any errors you notice, and I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments!


CHAPTER 4 TITLE
Tyelkormo


CHAPTER 4 INITIAL NOTES
A note on ages:

In most of my AUs, as well as canon-compliant fics like this one, I take the one-hundred-year point of maturity as about the human equivalent of a twenty-year-old, but take take the fifty-year point of maturity as about the human equivalent of a fifteen-year-old. Thus any ages under fifty in this may be multiplied by 3/10 to derive the intended human equivalent of physical and emotional maturity on an average (eg: 50 x (3/10) = 150/10 = 15).

Ages of maturity between fifty and a hundred may be found by adding 1/10 to 15 for every year of age above 50 (eg: 56 years old would be 15 + (6 x (1/10)) = 156/10 = 15.6 years of age). Thus a full year of human-equivalent ageing would take place over the span of ten years. After a hundred years I don't maintain a rate of ageing because it really ceases to matter, and changes depending on the individual's experiences (NoME maths notwithstanding in any case because I can't make sense of it lol).

Hope you enjoy!


CHAPTER 4
Silver fuzz upon his head. For minutes it is the only thing that Finwë can see, the only thing that registers as he holds the child. Not his bawling, nor his strong grip on Finwë's finger, or even his comforting weight.

   He does not look much like Míriel, really. Very little, in fact; his eyes are the deep blue-grey of Finwë's own, and his face and build are in Mahtan's set. Yet Finwë cannot unsee it: visions of slender fingers and the sound of a waterfall of wordless music assail his mind, and he hears again her gasping breaths after Fëanáro's birth. He sees her weaving through forests and then weaving forests and then her still form in his mind as clearly as though he stands before her pedestal in Lórien, though he has not visited in some years.

   'He is a very healthy child,' Finwë says, hating his own voice. It sounds fake — the sort of compliments given by dissatisfied courtiers and smiling bootlickers. Nerdanel sits up on the bed before him — is it simply his mind, or does she look more drawn than she did with Maitimo and Makalaurë both?

   'Not very given to sleeping, however,' she replies, and the awkwardness breaks; both of them chuckle, and Finwë sinks into the chair beside her bed, apparently vacated by Fëanáro some hours ago.

   'Are you tired? More worn than usual? I can bring something to you, if you like?' It is colder here, too, for they are in Formenos at present — Finwë rode fast and hard to arrive on time, and yet he arrived some days after the birth.

   'No, it's alright. Fëanáro said he would bring food after he'd settled the children.' Nerdanel takes the child back into her arms, and her breaths do not quiver. 'Tyelkormo, I shall call him, I think. He has not given me peace these last two days.'

   'Tyelkormo,' Finwë repeats, and tells himself: he will be strong.

***

Finwë barely hears the patter of soft feet beside him, and has to admit: already Tyelkormo is a truly skilled hunter.

   He is only thirty-six, yet his discipline is excellent. His footsteps are quiet, and his hand on his bow (made to size — Finwë himself has crafted it, in a simpler fashion than today's ornate things) is steady. He eyes the deer that is his prey through the bushes, and Finwë steps aside, watching him intently. Silver hair glints in the near-obscured light of Laurelin, and Finwë marvels how his grandson evades notice, even with such gleaming locks. Thanks the light for keeping his thoughts in the present, hating that they wish to wander away to another time and place.

   The arrow is launched, almost without Finwë noticing, and hits the deer's eye. It falls at once, and his grandson bites his lip (Finwë assumes it is to keep his shout of triumph to himself).

   'Very good,' he whispers. 'That shall last you long, hm?'

   'She was so young,' he says instead, voice quiet and quivering a little, and suddenly Finwë understands.

   'Is this...is this your first time killing?'

   Tyelkormo nods. 'On my own, anyway.'

   'Such is the way of things.' Finwë pulls his grandson into an embrace. 'That was a very good shot, however.'

   'I tried to make it quick,' he explains. 'I didn't want to make it hurt for long. Hear her scream.'

   Hear her like the hunters of old, and like Oromë's Maiar, Finwë realises. 'That was kind,' he says, storing the information away for another time. 'You must use all of your game too, and waste nothing.' He walks forward to where the dead deer lies, and appraises it. 'Use the skin for boots, or a coat. The bones too, for a cage or some ornament.' It is not so common now, with steel and precious things in easy reach, but Finwë still remembers his first wedding-band — a simple thing carved of bone by quick, slender fingers, and the most finely crafted thing he owned for many years. Sometimes he feels its phantom sensation on his finger. 'The flesh, I am sure, your father and the cooks at the palace will appreciate, if you do not mind my taking some.'

   'Of course I don't mind!' Tyelkormo replies, and kneels by the deer, pulling the arrow out of her eye, and shutting the eye that is unwounded. Then he closes his eyes, and Finwë does the same, sending a prayer to Eru, and then to Oromë, for a good hunt and the life of a creature which they need.

   Then they both lift the deer, and carry it back to the clearing where their tent and horses wait.

***

Tyelkormo's cloak is missing, but there are heavy footsteps at the door. That must be him returning, he realises.

   Finwë folds his letter up, and places it into his pocket. It is the last he has received from Ñolofinwë, his words stilted and hand steady. 'I shall manage until you return, Father.' He has almost memorised the words by now.

   Sure enough, the door to the stone-walled sitting room opens, and Tyelkormo walks in, throwing his cloak onto a hook. Huan bounds in after him, and settles down in front of the fireplace.

   'Hunting?' asks Finwë.

   'No, just riding,' he replies. 'There's no going anywhere though.' Finwë wonders whether the isolation chafes at him too — whether he would choose to forsake this exile if he could. 'Any letters?'

   Finwë shakes his head. 'Come, your hair is all tangled. May I comb it for you?' It is always a sure way to start a conversation with any of his grandchildren (and even children, for that matter). Tyelkormo nods, and sits down by Finwë's armchair, handing him a bone comb.

   'I wish Father would let us write more, you know,' he says after some time. 'It isn't as though we're going to leave him now — we’d never do that anyway . But I haven't heard from Írissë in months, nor from Angaráto or Aikanáro. If they’re going to be angry, at least I’ll know if I hear from them — we didn’t even get to talk before leaving. T hough perhaps they will not want to talk to me at all , after...'

   And that is the matter at the heart of it, really. For all that Finwë is here willingly, to stay by Fëanáro's side, since he cannot help but worry for him, he detests that the children are being hurt by the exile so. The divide in the family, he fears, will only deepen, and when the rift between his children — no, his wives, for what use is there lying to himself? That is where the line has been struck, though by neither Indis nor Míriel — when that rift is too wide to build a bridge across, what then?

   'I am sure they do not hate you,' he says, pulling the comb through Tyelkormo's hair. 'And once this is over, it'll all go back to how it used to be, I'm sure...'

   The door swings open once again, and Fëanáro walks in, silent as he so often is nowadays. Finwë falls silent, and after a quick nod to Finwë (without saying a word), Fëanáro settles into a corner with a book and a mending-basket, as though one will not suffice to keep his attention.

   Tyelkormo's eyes dart in his direction, and he gets up, murmuring his thanks as he takes his comb, nods to his father (who is already absorbed in embellishing a torn cloak further around a rip that must have been mended in the minute before ), and leaves. Huan gets up and follows him.

   And after that, there is no conversation to be had. So Finwë takes a book off the table by the armchair and begins to read.


CHAPTER 4 FINAL NOTES
Please feel free to point out any errors you notice, and I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments!