TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Family Portrait	Swanhild	2023-04-30	2023-04-30	1,195	1/1	12	152	25	1,244

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
General Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien, TOLKIEN J. R. R. - Works & Related Fandoms

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Fëanor | Curufinwë & Fingolfin | Ñolofinwë, Fëanor | Curufinwë & Indis, Fëanor | Curufinwë & Finwë, Finwë/Indis (Tolkien), Fëanor | Curufinwë & Findis	Fëanor | Curufinwë, Fingolfin | Ñolofinwë, Indis (Tolkien), Finwë (Tolkien), Findis (Tolkien), Írimë | Lalwen, Finarfin | Arafinwë	Dysfunctional Family, sibling relationships, Brothers, Angst, Brotherly Angst, Family Dynamics, Family Drama, Fëanor and Fingolfin being themselves, only younger and not yet in possession of swords, Fingolfin goes a little too far, Children of Finwë, Finwean family drama, Finwëan family dynamics, Valinor, First Age, Years of the Trees, Quenya Names

SUMMARY
For the first time in his life, Ñolofinwë manages to have the upper hand in an argument with Fëanáro.

He regrets it almost immediately.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Family Portrait


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
Written for the @fellowshipofthefics April challenge on Tumblr (prompts: dress-up, escape, ordinary)


CHAPTER 1
The artist Finwë had commissioned to paint a portrait of his family was due to arrive any moment now, but there was still no sign of Fëanáro.

“I told you he would refuse to show up for this,” Findis said to her mother and Ñolofinwë.

“Well, looks like you were—once again—wrong about something then,” Fëanáro drawled, sauntering into the room as if magically summoned by her words. 

Findis only rolled her eyes at him, but Ñolofinwë couldn’t help but respond to his older half-brother. 

“At least she’s here on time and dressed up already, while you look like you just crawled out of some shrubbery!”

It was true, Fëanáro was wearing simple work clothes that bore traces of dirt and soot in some places, and his hair was a mess. Ñolofinwë could even see a small twig trapped in the remnants of a braid that had mostly come loose. 

“I had more important things to do,” Fëanáro replied dismissively and then eyed the elaborate, gem-studded garments his half-siblings and stepmother had already put on. 

“You look ridiculous,” was all he commented and then plopped down onto a chair next to Lalwendë, who was playing with her wooden toy horses on the table. 

The nursemaid feeding baby Arafinwë on Lalwendë’s other side flinched, as if uncomfortable with having Fëanáro so close to her or to the children in her care. 

“You’re the one who’s going to look ridiculous next to us, if you don’t get cleaned up and changed!” Ñolofinwë shot back.

“Boys,” Indis said tiredly.

Fëanáro ignored her. “I’m not going to wear some stupid outfit just so I can match with the rest of you!”

“Then put on some other clothes of your choosing. Just make sure they’re clean and fit for the occasion,” Indis suggested, voice carefully gentle and placatory.

“No.”

Ñolofinwë threw his hands up into the air. “Why are you even here then, if you are only going to be difficult and can’t even be bothered to look presentable?!”

“Because Atar asked me to. He didn’t mention anything about dressing up like fools.”

“Fëanáro, please! At least let me fix your hair a little,” Indis pleaded, a tinge of impatience now creeping into her voice as she reached out for her stepson’s long, unkempt tresses.

“Don’t touch me!” Fëanáro yelled and slapped her hands away. “What do you think gives you the right to do that, you scheming, usurping—“

“Fëanáro!” Finwë reprimanded with uncharacteristic sharpness from the doorway he had now appeared in. “Do not talk to her like that!”

That was enough for Fëanáro. He shot his father a look of betrayal and stood up abruptly, roughly shoving his chair away from him and accidentally ramming the sharp corner of the chair’s back into Indis’ stomach.

Indis gasped in pain and pressed her hands protectively against the place Fëanáro had struck.

Little Lalwendë and Arafinwë, who had been watching the entire exchange with wide eyes started crying nearly in unison as they saw their mother get hurt. Findis hurried over to comfort them. 

“Fëanáro!” Finwë said once again, nearly shouting this time. Seemingly at a loss for words, he rushed to his wife’s side.  

For a moment, Fëanáro looked regretful and upset with himself for hurting Indis and making his two youngest half-siblings cry, but then his face darkened again. 

“Fuck this! I don’t want to be part of this embarrassing charade anyway! Leave me alone!” 

With that, he turned and stormed out of the room. But not without reaching out to push a decorative vase off a side table as he ran. The vase crashed to the floor and splintered into hundreds of pieces. Ñolofinwë recognised it as the vase his parents had received as a wedding gift from King Ingwë, one of his mother’s favorite possessions.

Feeling furious with Fëanáro for hurting his mother and for his apparent inability to act even half-way decently around his family, Ñolofinwë chased after him. 

He heard his father telling him to stay, but paid it no mind. He had put up with his older brother’s behavior his entire life and he was not going to simply take it anymore.

It did not take long for Ñolofinwë to catch up with Fëanáro. He had recently hit a growth spurt and he had always been a fast runner, so when his brother stormed into his bedroom, Ñolofinwë was already there to squeeze himself into the room as well.

Fëanáro whirled around, enraged. “Why are you following me?! I told you to leave me alone! Fuck off!”

“No! Not until you apologize to my mother! By Eru, what is wrong with you?! Why do you have to be so horrible all the time!”

A bitter laugh escaped Fëanáro. “I won’t apologize. Nothing I’ve ever done to her even begins to compare to what she did to me and my family! To my mother! And she has never apologized for any of it! I’m not the one who’s horrible here!”

“Yes, you are! You always ruin everything! I’m sick of the way you treat the people around you and everyone else is too!”

“I don’t care what you or anyone else thinks! Atar is the only one whose opinion I care about!”

“Atar can’t stand to be around you anymore either! He’s considering sending you away to apprentice with Mahtan the smith! He thinks it will make things easier for all of us! I heard him say so myself!”

“You’re lying!” Fëanáro yelled at him, but Ñolofinwë could hear the tiniest hints of doubt and distress in his voice.

“I’m not! Everyone is sick of you! Even your own mother decided that she’d rather be dead than stick around for you!” Ñolofinwë screamed back at him.

The comment hit its mark. 

Fëanáro looked as if he’d been punched and Ñolofinwë felt a rush of satisfaction course through his body. For once, he had managed to get under his brother’s skin, instead of the other way around.

The room fell dead silent, their breathing the only thing that could be heard, but then Fëanáro made a strange little sound in his throat and Ñolofinwë saw his brother’s lower lip and chin tremble slightly. 

A second later, Fëanáro was moving again, intent on getting out of the room he had just entered. He briefly regarded his younger brother with an expression Ñolofinwë couldn’t quite decipher, and then stormed past him. 

But Ñolofinwë had seen the tears in his eyes and his earlier satisfaction disappeared like smoke as a wave of guilt washed over him.

“Fëanáro, wait!” he called out and ran after his brother, grabbing him by the wrist. “I’m sorry, I didn’t mean that!”

But Fëanáro only shook him off and pushed him away so forcefully he tumbled to the ground. 

Ñolofinwë didn’t get up again. He remained sitting on the cold stone floor and wept. His sobs shook his body as he despaired over how broken their family was and a sense of hopelessness overcame him that things would ever get better.

Outside, hidden between the trees and bushes of the garden his own mother had once planted, Fëanáro did exactly the same.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Fëanor showing up the Valar’s fancy dress party in the equivalent of work clothes or a track suit has always been one of my favorite bits of canon Silm lore. But maybe that wasn’t the first time he pulled a stunt like that? Fëanor does tend to act out in interesting (and sometimes catastrophic) ways when under emotional distress.

(And Finwë of course did not simply want to send Fëanor to Mahtan to get rid of him. He thought it would be a great opportunity for Fëanor to follow his interests and further hone his skills, one that he would genuinely enjoy. He also hoped that a little temporary distance and some “cool off time” might relieve the tension in his family a little. But Fingolfin interpreted what he overheard his father say through his own filters and gave a very distorted summary of the actual conversation to Fëanor in his anger.)

You can also find me on Tumblr, come say hi :)

Comments and kudos are always greatly appreciated!