TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Ilyë Ambarussar	Khornenatter	2023-07-02	2023-09-24	2,922	4/?	0	21	0	330

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
General Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Sons of Fëanor & Sons of Fëanor, Nerdanel & Sons of Fëanor, Fingon | Findekáno & Sons of Fëanor, Curufin | Curufinwë/Curufin's Wife	Sons of Fëanor, Nerdanel (Tolkien), Fëanor | Curufinwë, Fingon | Findekáno, Celebrimbor | Telperinquar, Curufin's Wife	Quenya Names, Older Sibling Maedhros (Tolkien), Family Fluff, Fluff and Humor, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence

SUMMARY
After the twins' birth, the family discusses how to make the shared mother-name Ambarussa (red-haired) more practical. After all, you need to be able to address each child separately as well. Fëanorian naming (numbering?) conventions get even more confusing this time!

(Title: Every Ambarussa / All The Ambarussar)

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Guide to Quenya used:

Háno, hánor – brother, brothers
Ambarussa, ambarussar – red-head, red-heads
Minyarussa – first red-head
Atyarussa – second red-head
Nelyarussa – third red-head
Yárarussa – ancient red-head (intended to mean The OG red-head)
Haru – grandfather
Haruni – grandmother
Indyo - grandchild


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
It always comes back to numbering


CHAPTER 1
“No, no, no!” Moryo said forcefully and Macalaurë hurried to his side, laid his hand on their younger brother’s shoulder and hushed him.

“Ammë and the twins are tired, be careful. Just like after Curvo’s birth,” the second oldest said, giving a bit of melody into his words to add a calming effect, creating the semblance of a lullaby with the rising and falling of the syllables alone. Russandol guessed he wanted to calm Moryo as well as their newest siblings.

The whole family was gathered in their parents’ chambers, where their mother had just introduced them to their newborn brothers. Their father sat on the side of the bed next to her, worriedly fussing as he usually did after a birth. Russo currently had the honour of holding the tiny twins, ever so gently cradling and admiring them. Tyelko was the one to hold Curvo, lifting him to let him see who he had just become big brother to. They already had their ataressi, Pityafinwë and Telufinwë. Now the amilessë was left, the subject of this currently heating up family discussion after their father had proposed adapting their shared amilessë to distinguish between First Ambarussa (Minyarussa) and Second Ambarussa (Atyarussa).

“Sorry hánor, sorry ammë,” Moryo whispered, blushing with shame. Laurë flexed his fingers on Moryo’s shoulder, the light pressure reassuring him of his older brother’s encouragement as he took a moment to collect himself.
“But … but you can’t say you want to number the ambarussar and just start in the middle! If you do that, he needs to be Minyarussa!” Moryo whirled around and pointed his finger at Russo when he said that. The eldest took too long to recover from his surprise to offer his opinion, so Moryo continued. “Then Pityo is Atyarussa and Telvo is Nelyarussa … or ammë wants to be counted, too?”

“I’m content being Yárarussa and letting you siblings have this,” their mother laughed, beaming with joy even through her exhaustion. “I mean, how far do you want to go? Your haru also has red hair.”

Moryo looked shocked at this reminder and helplessly turned to Laurë and Russandol. Their father was distracted, busy asking their mother to drink more water. It was Laurë again who had an idea on how to comfort him.
“It’s alright. Atar gifted Curvo and the both of us with his dark hair. Haruni made her silver hair a special gift to Tyelko. And ammë gave her coppery hair to inspire the ambarussar. That’s just how colourful our family is.”

“I just don’t want anyone to feel left out,” Moryo whispered after a moment and looked quite lost.

Russo silently thanked the Valar it was Tyelko who stepped up to hug Moryo. The effect wouldn’t have been the same had it been anyone else. Curvo ended up in the middle of the hug, but seemed to decide against struggling and just participated.
“I don’t think haru will feel left out. Do you remember how Russo sent the invitations to his begetting day banquet last year, and haru sent the messenger back to ask who Nelyafinwë Maitimo was? He loves this epessë so much, he forgot his ataressë and his amilessë! Just because he is a smith and enjoys using his craft to compare the colour!”

“If you want, we could come up with a name for the colour of our hair that also includes forging materials,” Laurë offered and joined the hug. “Minyo, what about you?”

“I don’t want to overwhelm my fellow ambarussar. And I feel a bit overwhelmed myself since you just unanimously decided to rename me without taking my opinion.”
The eldest sighed in amused defeat. If they thought it was a good idea to call him First and Third, he’d let them have it. Hopefully they’d tire themselves out of it soon and drop it.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Moryo gets too excited about how to count correctly at the right time and everyone just goes with it

This will probably have multiple chapters due to the possibilities, but there won't be something like an update schedule. They'll just happen as they pop into my head and my head certainly holds a curated disdain for structure


CHAPTER 2 TITLE
Making it count


CHAPTER 2 INITIAL NOTES
Findekáno only wants to visit his favourite cousin but of course he is drawn into mischief


CHAPTER 2
“He thinks we’re too stupid to notice,” Macalaurë whispered in Findekáno’s ear as he held the door open to welcome him.

Now that sounded as if Káno was about to be roped into some prank, which was rarely a good thing in this ridiculously big family. He didn’t plan to be involved in the family life this time, he merely wanted to see his favourite cousin, as he started to behave quite strangely since the twins were born. Oh well … it was only Laurë, whose pranks were usually harmless. Laurë was an entertainer at heart, he strived for laughter and preferred tears to be the result of his musical performances. Therefore Káno decided to humour him, should his path cross with Laurë’s prank.

“Where’s Russo, then?”
Whenever he had met Russo since the twins’ birth, he had complained and lamented, yet never mentioned what he was even lamenting about. Káno was not above providing a shoulder to cry on, but this had become concerning over time. By the Valar, Laurë and Findo worked on improving their acting by his inspiration! If this was about the twins, Káno would only find answers by stepping into the lion’s den, seeing as the ceremonial presentation of the new princes to the Noldor was yet to happen and the family had kept to itself (a tradition half-uncle Fëanáro insisted on).

Laurë giggled, then tried to get a grip to answer Cáno.
“Wait and see. You’re in for the premiere,” he promised and stepped to the middle of the entrance hall to deploy the trusted FVAS (Fëanorian Visitor Announcement System, colloquially called Shouting The Name Of The Fëanorion Needed Into The Hallways). “Nelyo!”

They were met with silence (there were rules against having complete conversations via FVAS, strictly enforced by Moryo). Then a door closed, followed by footsteps. Just in front of a closed door leading to the entrance hall the footsteps stopped, yet the door remained unmoved. Laurë looked at Káno and laid his index finger on his lips, his shoulders shivering with suppressed laughter.

“He meant me,” a deep male voice said and Káno recognized Russo immediately.

“Did not,” a high-pitched child’s voice answered, probably one of the twins? At least Káno didn’t recognize this voice. “He said Nelyo, I heard it.”

“Yes. And I was there first.”

“Exactly. So he clearly called for me.”

“Alright, if you insist …” - “I do.” - “… which you do … Eru, this is the worst idea since Oromë taught Tyelko to craft signal horns!”

While Russo apparently lost an argument against his youngest brother, Laurë’s giggle dropped for a moment. He clearly did not appreciate being reminded of that incident. Tirion had braved Tyelko’s early practices at crafting and sounding a signal horn, until he had decided in obviously Fëanorian fashion to do it bigger and better. After he had carved a signal horn out of a huge tree trunk, he had asked Laurë to join him in playing his “new instrument”. Káno still wondered how Laurë had failed to notice the wool in Tyelko’s ears or Huan’s absence. Anyway, the young minstrel spent a month deaf which lead to Russo inventing a sign language and uncle Fëanáro being insufferable, as he just wouldn’t stop bragging about Russo’s linguistic achievement of creating a language. Oh, and also using that specific signal horn was banned as several surrounding settlements had inquired what the loud sound was.

Finally the door opened, revealing a tiny red-haired elfling in front of the far too tall Russo. Laurë ended his attempts to hold it together, drawing a glare from his older brother.
“So you did notice and merely waited for an opportune moment,” Russo said flatly.

“Of course! Is Atyo also here?” Laurë gasped.

“I’m here!” another tiny elfling shouted.

“Well met!” Káno cheerily chimed in. “I am your half-cousin Findekáno. And I’d love to hear the story behind that!”

Russo’s glare wandered towards Káno until Laurë added “You see, he’s family. So let’s keep to the amilessë, shall we?” and the second child slipped past Russo to stand next to his twin.

“I’m Nelyarussa,” the first child said.

“I’m Atyarussa,” the second one said.

“Ah, of course! Then you’re Minyarussa!” Káno shouted out in the excitement of revelation, to which his renamed cousin sighed in defeat.

“I guess I’d better get used to this soon.”

Just a day later, a messenger gave a letter to Findekáno.

Dear indyo,

I hope this letter finds you and your family well. Your haruni and I are well and healthy, although I do, of course, have a reason for this letter.

Lately a few letters reached me, giving me a riddle you might know a clue to. Apparently, your cousin has reached out to about every loremaster in our realm and inquired whether there is a possibility to receive a new amilessë later in life. Especially when the Noldo in question already has one.

Knowing how close the two of you are, I share my worry with you and hope you might find a calming solution for all of us.

Please don't forget to give my wishes to your parents and siblings.

Your loving haru Finwë


CHAPTER 2 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 3 TITLE
Losing Count


CHAPTER 3 INITIAL NOTES
Sometimes the confusion happens within the family. And sometimes even by accident


CHAPTER 3
Argoldo sighed as he looked at each of the young elves in front of him. He was tasked to train two of the older princes in the art of horseback archery he honed, and apparently the princes had decided to test their new teacher just as they were to have their first lesson. This first lesson was also supposed to be their introduction as he hadn’t met his new students before. And by the looks of it, he wouldn’t meet one of them today either.

“I brought Nelyo, just as I was asked to,” prince Findekáno explained and the tiny red-haired child next to him nodded enthusiastically. The tiny red-haired child who they tried to convince him was the adolescent prince Nelyafinwë, known for being exceedingly tall.

“It’s not fair Atyo couldn’t come too,” Not-Nelyafinwë added defiantly.

“Wait, you’re the teacher for horseback archery, aren’t you?” prince Findekáno asked worriedly and Argoldo nodded, still without solution. “I think there’s been another mix up, Nelyo. You are too young for this.”

Tiny-Nelyo crossed his arms and kicked at a stone on the ground.
“I hate it when Laurë tries to prepare the schedules! He always gets distracted and then Minyo and I get all the blame for being late!”

Somehow Argoldo’s studies in court etiquette had failed to include how to deal with confusion due to the crown prince numbering his children instead of simply naming them. At least the princes hadn’t actually tried to convince him the tiny boy was the eldest son of the crown prince.

“You should ask him to stop preparing the schedules,” prince Findekáno advised. “You’re lucky today, Minyo seems to have noticed early.”

“At least we have a good argument after this week. Haru was not amused when I stumbled into the council meeting,” Tiny-Nelyo pouted and looked around, noticed the approaching tall elf and ran towards him.

The tall man caught him easily and carried him as he continued to hurry towards them as fast as he could without running. Nevertheless he panted as he stopped in front of them and prince Findekáno offered to support him as he caught his breath.
“I’m so sorry, there’s been a misunderstanding.”

“Minyo, Laurë messed up the schedules again and haru was really mad this time!” the child chimed in.

“I’ll tell him this evening to stop it before haru does. Now hurry back, I don’t know how patient Yavanna’s maiar are, Nelyo,” the adolescent gasped in between breaths, put the boy down and ruffled his hair before turning to his teacher. “Again, I’m terribly sorry, I’ll take care this won’t happen again.”

Argoldo was still quite defeated by confusion and now needed to do something. It was obvious the new arrival waited for him to react somehow. He sighed and shook his head, kind of hoping to shake off the confusion.
“Would you care to explain what I just witnessed?” he finally asked.

“As far as names go, this was the dumbest idea your family ever had,” prince Findekáno chuckled before his cousin could answer.

“Káno, at least let me explain first. I am Nelyafinwë Minyarussa. And that was my youngest sibling Telufinwë Nelyarussa. And if you’d allow me to add, my opinion was not taken into consideration when that was decided.”


CHAPTER 3 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 4 TITLE
The One Who Was Held Accountable


CHAPTER 4 INITIAL NOTES
As a pregnancy advances, brains are stormed and broken in attempts to find suitable names for the new family member
Quenya/Name Guide:

Coivenquamë – the Lively, the Vibrant (my creation, based on coivenqua: full of life)
Curufinwë – Crafty Finwë
Nelyafinwë Minyarussa – Third-Finwë First-Redhaired
Minya-, Minyo – First
Atya-, Atyo – Second
Nelya-, Nelyo – Third
Cantëa – Fourth


CHAPTER 4
Coivenquamë really began to regret this decision. She should have thought about it before she agreed, it wasn’t as if she hadn’t known about the many hang-ups of this family. Suddenly gaining six brothers by marriage had been overwhelming at first but she had gotten used to it. This family’s intensity was also something she usually felt comfortable with.

It had all been nice and sweet until she had agreed to having a child and her husband’s family had turned all of their issues to eleven. How could she have forgotten about their eternal issues with names?! Currently she was resting (physically at least) in a large woven swinging chair Morifinwë had made that was held in a framework crafted by her husband Curvo. One of the many, many results of the most aggressive fussing and mother-henning she was sure any elda had ever experienced (except Nerdanel perhaps). The husband and father-to-be in question was pacing on the porch next to her. Whenever he wasn’t able to see her physically due to the pacing he reached for them with his fëa to make sure they were well.

“Nelyacurufinwë?”

Coivenquamë laid her hand on her round belly and tutted. “Rejected.”

“Cantëafinwë?”

“Eru have mercy, no! Forget that idea ever occurred to you!”

In a way she pitied him for having to think of the ataressë so soon. She intended to make full use of the tradition of getting to know the child before bestowing the amilessë. But there were lines she was determined to keep him far away from. Calling the child Fourth Finwë was one of them. Curvo hummed as he returned to his storming thoughts about names.

“Maybe Atyacurufinwë? But if I try that, Moryo might convince atto to make me Atyacurufinwë and we end up with Nelyacurufinwë again …”

She reached for her glass of fruit juice on the table nearby, intercepted by him immediately getting the glass to hand it to her.

“Why do you even insist on giving him a numbered name?!” He took the glass away again when she made the exasperated gestures with it, only causing her to roll her eyes and reach for it again.

“It’s tradition!” he pouted and watched her like a hawk when she finally drank.

“Calling sons something ending in finwë is a tradition. Numbering them is not! Everyone knows Minyo was renamed after your youngest brothers were born! Also, do you want to worsen the nickname problem? Then go on, have another Minyo or Atyo or – Valar forbid – Nelyanelyo!”

Of course she didn’t finish her rant with the glass in her possession. Too afraid she might hurt herself he had soon taken it away again.
“It’s not that bad! If we call him Cantëafinwë …”

“Which I already rejected,” she interrupted him. “Have you ever talked to your brothers? Because I have and I know Nelyafinwë Minyarussa is quite unhappy for all his names to be numbers and tries to form traditions.”

He rolled his eyes to those words. “Did you talk to him or did he corner you and wouldn’t let you leave without 'offering' you ‘advice’? He sure is opinionated …”

Now it was her who took her turn rolling her eyes. “I wonder how Nelyafinwë Minyarussa came to develop those opinions. Dear, you are aware our little spark is going to be the first of his generation? You could begin a new tradition. He is going to be a new beginning.”

Curvo slowly set the glass back on the table, then sat down next to her and gently laid his calloused hand next to hers on her belly. From the very beginning they were both involved in nurturing the growing little fëa, had both felt they were expecting a son. Although in fairness, the reason they were only discussing male names was not to be found in their child. Since Nerdanel had long hoped in vain for a daughter there had been a lot of inspiration available and Curvo had found a few favourites soon. Sometimes children were born whose fëa and hröa had differing expressions of their gender, something Coivenquamë and Curvo had talked about early in the pregnancy. In case their little spark would announce to be their daughter, they would keep the female names (and the six fiercest uncles any child could have) ready to support her.

“You know, sometimes I call him our little wonder. Because he …” The way he now hastily looked around to ensure they were alone wouldn’t quite fit his gentle tone, at least to someone who didn’t know his family. “… because he makes me wonder all the time. Wonder how he’ll look like. Wonder what he’ll like to do. Wonder what he’ll like.”

It was a shame he was so used to hiding his romantic thoughts and gestures due to mocking brothers. Even now, after Minyo had threatened the whole brood should anyone mock a husband loving his wife or a father loving his child. He seemed to have intimidated them very effectively, there had been no more mocking since (not even by Tyelko!). If only those months had been enough for Curvo to be able to unlearn this fear of seeming vulnerable. Nevertheless she revelled in the moment and his presence as he took in her idea.


CHAPTER 4 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]