TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
The Path of Dreams	starlightwalking	2022-03-25	2022-03-25	1,700	1/1	8	16	4	115

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
General Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Nuin & Tû | Thû (Tolkien), Nuin & Tuvon (Tolkien), Elmir & Ermon & Nuin (Tolkien)	Tû | Thû (Tolkien), Tuvon (Tolkien), Nuin (Tolkien), Elmir (Tolkien), Ermon (Tolkien)	Úmaiar - Freeform, The Avari, First Rising of the Sun (Tolkien), Hildorien, Murmenalda, Quenya, valarin, Scheming, Back to Middle-Earth Month

SUMMARY
Deep in his caverns, Túvon felt a stirring: the movement of a breath that should not yet be.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
The Path of Dreams


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
Something a little different for today’s Back to Middle-earth Month entry! (Well, yesterday’s, but I haven’t gone to bed yet so it still counts.)

Today’s prompts:
✷ Shades of Sauron Bingo Card: Túvon
✷ Landscapes of Arda Bingo Card: Hildórien
✷ General Prompt 89: Create a fanwork relating to any geographical area or peoples in Arda that you think we do not get enough information about in canon.

See the end notes for conceptual and linguistic explanations!


CHAPTER 1
Deep in his caverns, Túvon felt a stirring: the movement of a breath that should not yet be.

It was not time. He was not ready. An anger awoke within him, though his own fána lay still and unmoving, for he would not rise before the appointed time.

He once was a servant of Irimôz, and in the Gardens of Lôriyenêz he learned to slip into the dreams of sleeping minds, whether they be the creations of Ayabanâz or the gleam of the distant stars. Under the teaching of Melkor he grew subtler in skill, reaching into the thoughts of slumbering Children, twisting their desires to his new Master’s will. The Quendi he had come to only after their Waking, when their minds had grown strong, walking the path of dreams with their own desires—but the Atani he had discovered early, and so even as they awaited their awakening, he whispered sweet promises in their hearts, turning them to his worship.

His Master would praise him well for this. But what Melkor did not know was the breadth of Túvon’s plans, the reverence he would instill in these Followers for himself, not the Vala of Darkness in his iron prison.

And yet: if the Atani woke too soon, neither he nor his Master would reap the rewards of the deceit they had sown.

Despite the Quendi’s resistance to his instructions in their dreams, there were some who had succumbed to Túvon’s power. Among those who remained when their kindred were spirited away into the Far West, a few had hearkened to his sweet song, sowing dissent among their kindred or wandering far from the place of their Awakening. And when he had slithered from the source-waters of Cuiviénen, seeking the stone-still forms of the Secondborn in their Vale of Sleep, one Quendë had followed him.

Nuin had once been of the Kindi tribe, but they had drifted from the other Hisildi, pulled ever further eastward by Túvon’s enchanting melodies. Not until they were far, far from the other Quendi did Túvon reveal himself to them, and then as a benevolent nature spirit, humbler than the Great Hunter Arômêz and his brethren. He offered friendship to Nuin, but his own whispers of freedom at all costs gripped the Quendë too tightly, and they yet kept to themself.

Túvon retreated, then. If he isolated Nuin from all other life, they would grow lonely and desperate. They would come to him, and he would make himself their Master, even as Melkor had mastered him.

Instead he sank his power into Murmenalda, diffusing his will throughout the slumbering creatures therein. Before they even awoke, they would be inclined to mistrust and servitude; they would be easy prey for Melkor, and for Túvon himself.

The One had appointed a time for His secondborn Children to wake, though it was unknown to Aiyanarûz, even Mânawenûz himself. Túvon would be there when these weak incarnates stirred to life, and he would appear unto them as if he were the One, a greater being than even Melkor.

Such was blasphemy, but Túvon remembered the ecstasy of Melkor’s Discord at the Aiyanarûzaliyandâlâz, the power Belekôrôz had seized, the hunger that had awoken inside Tyuvânûz to follow in his example, to claim that power for himself. If Belekôrôz could become Melkor and usurp all the other Valarôkôz, if he could usurp even the Creator—why could Tyuvânûz, now Túvon, not do the same to his own Master, in time?

But in his lair beneath the mountains encircling the Slumberous Dale, Túvon felt the Secondborn take breath—and it was wrong.

He knew at once what had occurred, who had foiled his schemes. It could only be Nuin, the incarnate left unattended for: the incarnate he had expressly forbidden from wandering in the Vale.

Nuin’s isolation had worked too well. Seized by melancholy, they wandered deeper into the mountain-mazes of Palisor, stumbling upon the Sleepers before any other of their kind. Túvon had felt them then, and appeared in his righteous wrath to scold them—but it seemed this time, Nuin had taken a thread of their own Song and slipped past his guard to disturb the Secondborn before their time.

Perhaps if Túvon had not been so content to simply wait, if he had been the one to bring life to these pitiful incarnates, they would have fallen at his feet and worshipped him. Nuin was yet an innocent, and had not the wit about them to use these creatures as the tool they could become, but if the Secondborn came to revere them—

It could not be. His plans were not yet ready, but he needed to strike now.

Túvon took the form of a serpent as he wound his way down into the Vale of Sleep. The sky above had turned a strange and heavy grey, like smoke in the clouds, and the accursed flower of Telperion was obscured. Anticipation hung in the air: all of Arda held its breath. All of Arda but the two wide-eyed figures staring up wondrously at Nuin, who regarded them with equal awe.

“Nuin,” the Quendë said, resting a hand above their heart. “I am Nuin.”

The two Atani looked between mutely themselves, then down to their own bare chests. One, bearing a rounder breast, copied Nuin’s motion, but neither spoke.

“You cannot speak,” Nuin realized. “Well! Then—I must teach you...”

Túvon hissed softly. No, no! They would learn the Master’s tongue, and no other—he could not allow this!

“Sky,” Nuin said, and gestured to the heavens above. Their audience of two peered upward, and for the briefest of moments, the glimmer of a star shone down, reflecting in their eyes.

“Stars,” Nuin sighed. “They shine, like jewels. Ai, but you do not know of even jewels!” They fumbled at their fingers, pulling a ring off to show them. It was shoddy craftsmanship, but a little emerald glimmered out.

The round-breasted one took the ring hesitantly. Nuin nodded encouragingly and pressed it onto her finger.

“Stars...” she whispered, the first word spoken by one of her kind. “Jewels...”

“Elmir,” Nuin exclaimed, tears budding in their eyes. “This I name you: star-jewel!”

“Elmir,” echoed her companion, his voice a deep rumble, and touched her hand.

Nuin looked about, beaming at the small mound upon which they sat. “And you...” They paused, then said, “You I will name Ermon, for this lonely hill.”

“Hill,” Elmir murmured. “Ermon.”

It was all too much. Túvon shed his scales into the mist, rising tall and fearsome in the seeming of an incarnate: dark he was, and golden-eyed, and gleaming emerald within the shadows of his lightless mane.

“Nuin,” he boomed, and the Quendë fell back in horror. The Atani, ignorant of fear, turned to gape at him, and he shimmered his colors to amaze them.

“I warned thee not to disturb the Children of the One,” Túvon intoned, summoning his Master’s authority within him. “The time has not yet come!”

“Aiya, lord,” Nuin cried, bowing down before him. “I am sorry! I was wrong!”

“Thy loneliness is no excuse for disobedience,” Túvon rumbled, and would have continued, teaching his first lesson to the Secondborn, but:

The grey sky broke open, rays of flame clawing hungrily at weeping clouds. Túvon, Nuin, Elmir, and Ermon all turned their eyes to the heavens, gawking as a golden orb rose sudden and bright out of the West, lighting the world in a memory of Laurelin.

A fruit of the Tree, Túvon realized, and his very eäla seized with terror. A sister to the flower!

“No,” he croaked, “no—!”

If the flower of Telperion had drawn his disgust, the fruit of Laurelin radiated disdain upon him, and he felt his power wane even as she waxed to full brightness, filling the sky with gold. The tendrils of his thought withered away, loosing their grip on the still figures around him—

But they were not still, not any longer. Nuin may have woken Ermon and Elmir before the appointed hour, but now that hour had arrived, and Túvon had been struck to feeblement. The Secondborn awoke, unfolding their limbs, lifting their heads to stare in amaze at the gift the One had given them: life, and light, and—and love.

Túvon wailed, his defeat crashing down upon him, and dissipating into a cloud of mist he fled back down beneath the earth, into the shadows of his lair. He had failed, he had failed; Nuin had asserted the Quendi’s influence upon the Atani, and Túvon’s well-laid plans had crumbled to pieces!

Above, he heard the movement of feet, the cries of delight, the lifting up of wordless voices into song. The Children lived, and already they sang of the One, praising Him though they knew not who or what He was.

Ai, he wished now he were still Tyuvânûz, still a wisp of thought in his Father’s mind, still nothing but a fragment of the Song of Eä. Would that he could return to the space outside Arda, would that he could choose to follow Irimôz as had been his intended role—

But he had not, and could not.

And then a spark of a thought pricked to life within him. He had been intended to follow one role: but he had not.

These incarnates were intended for a purpose of their own, carrying a lick of the Flame Imperishable within their fëar. But if Melkor could turn Túvon from the path laid out for him, even after he had already taken the first steps along the way...

Why, then, could Túvon not do the same?

His power was not destroyed, only weakened. Already he felt himself growing stronger, and if this fruit of Laurelin was anything like her silver brother, she would not linger forever in the sky. He could emerge amidst the stars, oust Nuin from the Valley, and grant hungry dreams to the Secondborn. His plan would change, not die. He would take yet another path, blaze a trail that this time, was all his own.

So in his caverns deep beneath Murmenalda, the Slumberous Dale where now no incarnates slept, Túvon smiled, and began to dream.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Túvon = known also as simply “Tu,” a proto-Sauron character (Tu → Thû) from the Book of Lost Tales who ruled over (at least some of) the Avari and warned Nuin against waking the sleeping figures of Men. I have repurposed him into a separate character from Sauron, making him instead a former Maia of Irmo who was corrupted by Melkor; he’s a much more morally gray character than his boss and coworkers, at least at this point.
Hisildi = an old name for the Avari in BoLT. Repurposed as a name the Avari use to refer to themselves. The name means something like “people of the dusk” rather than “the Unwilling.”
Nuin = an elf of the Hisildi, counseled by Túvon to leave the sleeping figures of Men alone, but his curiosity got the better of him and he woke two of them anyway, just before the first rising of the Sun. Here, Nuin is nonbinary and uses they/them pronouns.
Kindi = one of the six (known) Avarin tribes. I headcanon they dwell in the mountains of the East, and that Nuin was one of their people before they took to wandering alone.
Ermon and Elmir = the first two mortal Men to wake, disturbed by Nuin. We have very little information on them otherwise; I headcanon Ermon to be male, and Elmir to be female.
Murmenalda = translated as the “Vale of Sleep” or “Slumberous Dale,” this is where the figures of Men lay slumbering before they were awoken. This name is from BoLT; the published Silm refers to the waking-place of Men as Hildórien, “land of the followers,” but I think that would be a name applied later by elves, not what the place was called originally. 

Valarin translations:
(a * indicates the translation was taken from this post)
*Irimôz = Irmo
*Lôriyenêz = Lórien
*Ayabanâz = Yavanna
Aiyanarûz = Ainur (my translation)
Aiyanarûzaliyandâlâz = Ainulindalë (my translation)
*Belekôrôz = Melkor
Valarôkôz = Valar (my translation)
Túvon uses Valarin to refer to people he knew before other languages came about. He joined Melkor before the Children awoke and invented Quenya, but Melkor now goes by his Quenya name, and so that is the language he uses to refer to his Master (and himself).
 
Thanks for reading, and please comment if you enjoyed!
You can find me on tumblr @arofili.