TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Two Wedding Nights	LawsAndCustoms (JazTheBard)	2022-06-07	2022-06-12	5,737	2/2	24	60	10	548

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Explicit	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Idril Celebrindal/Maeglin | Lómion/Tuor, Idril Celebrindal/Tuor, Maeglin | Lómion/Tuor	Idril Celebrindal, Tuor (Tolkien), Maeglin | Lómion	Polyamory, Wedding Night, Sexual Content, bisexual tuor, Porn With Plot, chapter 1 is pwp, Chapter 2 has plot, Angst, Hair Kink, we all know elves have a Thing about hair, Trans Character, they are all trans thank you, Quenya Names

SUMMARY
Chapter 1: Idril/Tuor wedding night.

Chapter 2: Tuor/Maeglin wedding night.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Chapter 1


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
lanyanassë = constructed quenya word for transgender


CHAPTER 1
Tuor would admit, even if only to himself, that he had fantasized about this. Dreamt of it, even, some warm nights with the fragrance of jasmine drifting in through his windows in the Tower of the King.

Of course, he hadn't thought any of it would ever come true.

He had dreamt of the touch of the princess of the Hidden City, of her golden hair falling loose in a curtain about him and the rest of the world fading away, of being beckoned into her bed and taught how to worship the lady he loved, and those dreams, he had thought, were only dreams, impossible and absurd and quite possibly offensive if she ever saw the evidence of them in his mind. To dream of welcome into the warmth of her favor was allowed, but to aspire to the place of her lover was inappropriate.

So too had he dreamt of the prince, though he and the princess were as different as moon and sun, earth and sky.

(And though those fantasies had undergone revision when he had found that, like him, the prince was what the elves called lanyanassë, but unlike him had made no changes to the body, whether through elf-magic or an enchanted spring the like of which Tuor had found in his youth. The princess was alike in the opposite direction, and had shaped herself through force of will alone.)

Those dreams had naturally been of a different kind, even imagination insufficient to ascribe such things as loving passion to an elf so proud and fair and cold, but he could briefly convince himself of the fantasy of being permitted to please him, and perhaps if he proved himself worthy his prince might deign to bestow some light touches in return.

How astounded he had been when they had both begun to show him favor, when the princess of sunlight had turned her face towards him and the prince of ice and stone had thawed! In his mind he knew better than to get involved with nobility, much less royalty, but his heart had other plans.

A year ago they had pledged their troths, though on his prince's part with the caveat that he was not yet ready to wed, and it might be some time, but Tuor was delighted all the same to be betrothed to those he so adored.

And today, just a few hours ago, Princess Itarillë had placed a gold ring on his finger and called him husband. Tonight, a few of those hidden dreams might come true.

Itarillë pulled him into her - their - bedchamber, laughing, and turned to kiss him, pushing him up against the door till it shut with a click. He returned the kiss with fervor, hands reaching out to her with no set goal but to make contact with her and pull her nearer, mind full of bubbles from her touch and the single glass of wine from the wedding feast.

After some time she pulled away, looking almost as giddy as he felt. "Wilt thou unbind my hair, husband?" she asked.

"Yes," he breathed. "Please."

She tugged him to the bed, then, where they collapsed in a heap, and when they managed to pull apart from one another's warmth she turned from him to allow access to her hair.

With trembling hands he removed the hair clasp at the end of her braid, setting it aside, and buried his hands in her silken hair. She leaned back into him with a sigh, the sweetest sound he had heard in his existence, and he obeyed the unspoken command to continue.

The braids worn to weddings, he had been told, were incredibly complex to put in, and that very afternoon he had marveled at the art she and her handmaidens had made of her tresses, but easier to undo, so the spouses might see their love's hair loose immediately. True to what he had heard, the patterns quickly turned to shining waves in his hands, soft beyond belief and smelling sweetly of lavender. Gently he combed his fingers through, delighting in the sensation, and a small moan escaped her lips as she melted into him.

He felt as if he could stay here forever, breathing in her intoxicating scent and drowning in her river of golden hair, but she shifted, and he mourned the loss of the shining strands upon his fingertips.

"I thank thee, my most beloved," she said. "But I hope, if it is thy will, that thou wilt touch much more than my hair."

"If it is thy wish," he replied, for he would be content for eternity braiding and unbraiding her beautiful tresses and would make no further advances if she did not desire them, though he yearned to be hers in body and soul.

"I think I have made it abundantly clear over these past years that it is indeed my wish, or hast thou not noticed my desire?" she said lightly. "But if thy wish, my most beloved, is that I should lead, then I ask thee to disrobe me, and touch as it pleases thee."

Her wedding gown was of the fashion of the Vanyar, her mother's people, she had told him, and it was fashioned of a single great piece of cloth with a number of clasps holding the fabric above the arms and a golden belt around the waist, causing all to fall in countless folds.

He lifted her left hand and kissed it, rubbing the wedding ring he had placed there only hours ago, and unfastened the first clasp of her gown. He pressed another kiss to where it had lain, and continued in this fashion up her arm, till he came to her shoulder, and when he opened the large pin there the cloth fell away, exposing her left breast, and his breath caught.

He had no time to be caught indecently staring, for she kissed him again, then, and encouraged him to go on, saying, "Continue, dear love, thou art far from finished."

At her right shoulder he began anew his work, and when he looked up at last from her right hand he saw that the gown had fallen to her waist with nothing to hold it up, and he marveled at the beauty she hid beneath her robes.

"May I?" he murmured, unsure what exactly it was he wished to do.

"I seem to recall asking thee to touch."

With this permission he placed his hands upon her waist and kissed her collarbone, and she tilted her head to allow him better access. He nipped gently at her skin and her hands flew to his hair as she gasped in pleasure. Down he went, kissing down the center of her chest, and faced the terrible dilemma of choosing where next to lavish his attentions.

But soon after he moved to the breast to which the hands in his hair directed him, just as he began with his own hands the work of removing her belt, she stopped him.

"I am already half-uncovered," she said, "but I am denied the sight of thy beauty. Lie thou back and allow me to even the field."

He lay back, unable to deny her anything though he wanted only to touch her further, and with deft hands she removed his wedding garments and looked appreciatively at all she revealed. The feather-light touches of her fingertips threatened to drive him mad.

"There," she said, when he lay unclothed entirely, her pupils blown wide as she looked upon him. "Thou art a beauty unmatched, and I shall evermore be full of disappointment when my view of thee is obscured, knowing what perfection is hidden." She trailed a hand down his chest, then suddenly shifted, moving to straddle him.

The glow of the enchanted lamps haloed her golden head as she bent to kiss him, hair a waterfall of light about them both, just as he had imagined.

She must have caught the wisp of thought, for she said, a smile playing about her lips, "Hast thou imagined this? For how long, I wonder? But I think it time we prove thy imagination inadequate. Thou mayst remove my belt."

His fingers fumbled to undo it, but at last the gold ornament fell from her, and her gown pooled about her as she revealed herself in full.

His mouth went dry as he looked up at her sitting proudly above him, a vision of loveliness unparalleled. She cast her garments to the side.

"Now, then," she said, staring intently in that strange way elves had of looking at something that fascinated them, "thou must tell me if I should stop, or if I do anything thou likest not, but I must have thee, or go mad." He could feel her arousal (for him, she felt this for him!) where she sat atop him; how could he keep from going mad as well?

He had only just sufficient presence of mind to nod, mesmerized by her voice and her beauty, before she began her exploration, as tender as he had been in removing her gown but bolder, less hesitant. Her lips on his lips, his jaw, his neck, his shoulders; her hands on his shoulders, his chest, his stomach, his hips—

(If he could have told his younger self that one day he would be here—flat on his back beneath the wisest and fairest princess of the elves, who had taken him as her husband—he would never have been believed. It was better than too good to be true.)

How easy it would be to lose himself, to surrender to the sensation of her touch! But greater than that wish was the desire to caress her in return, to show his devotion bodily. He fought to keep himself present, that he might soon touch her again once her exploration was complete.

She traced every muscle, every scar, leaving trails of fire in her wake, but in time she returned up to him and pulled him to sit up, kissing his palm. At last, at last he could touch her in return!

(It had not been as long as all that, but time stretched itself horribly to torment lovers.)

He placed his hands on her waist as he fell into her kiss, delighting in her softness. Perhaps he could dare to move a hand up to her breast as his lips went to the other; perhaps he could dare to pull gently at her golden fall of hair—

A cry of pleasure fell from her lips as she grasped his shoulders, and he refused to notice just how she ground down upon him, for fear he would lose all semblance of dignity and restraint.

"What is it thou wouldst have of me?" she asked, and he heard it echoed in the forming marriage bond where their souls met.

Unwilling to speak the indelicate words, and unsure of his trust in his voice, he replied by blatantly imagining what he desired and hoping she would see.

A breath of laughter, and she moved from her place atop him. "On thy knees, then, my love."

He wanted to believe there was some little elegance left in his overeager movements, falling to his knees beside the bed and looking up at Itarillë, who cupped his face in her gentle hand before parting her legs.

(How was he supposed to breathe, let alone keep composure, in a situation like this? He was only mortal, unprepared for the perfection of his wife.)

He let himself enjoy a brief moment merely resting his head on the inside of her thigh as she played with his hair, then set to work.

Silver-tongue, he had been affectionately titled when he waxed poetic about his loves, and now, placing his mouth upon her for the first time, he hoped the title held. But all worries were forgotten soon enough, with her taste on his tongue.

How lucky he was, to be able at long last to explore her! He gloried in the learning, the finding that this pleased her and this did not, that this made a sound of high pitch fall from her lips and this a lower one, that this made the legs slung over his shoulders tremble with the effort not to squeeze and this made her fingers tangle in his hair, and that this, this, brought her to climax.

But, of course, he would have to continue his experiments to be sure. And to commit it all to memory.

She shifted, then, to provide better access, angling herself and reclining on the mass of pillows he found himself sure were only in the room for this purpose and not for regular use, and he happily remembered that he was also possessed of hands with which to serve her pleasure, and time lost its meaning in a haze of sighs. With every moment the bond growing between them strengthened and brightened, till he could feel her joy spilling over and knew she could sense his, closer and closer to becoming one in heart.

At length he paused to catch his breath, and when he made to return to what he could now confidently call the most wonderful task he had ever been entrusted with, Itarillë stopped him.

"Thou hast exhausted me for the present," she said, stroking his hair. "But we have all this joyous night to continue. Let me now see to thee—the bond settles best when we both are satisfied." She drew him up and graced him once more with her deft fingers, continuing to speak. "And then once we are clean, thou must comb my hair, and when recovered—ah, then I shall ride thee till thou art truly spent."

The mere thought of it, he believed, could have brought him over the edge, but combined with her ministrations he stood no chance. The bond settled, a brightness where their souls met.

They lay content in one another's arms for a short while, until she pecked him on the cheek and went in search of cleaning cloths with instruction for him to find her combs.

Happily he combed her hair, and worked in the sweet-scented oils that kept it healthy and shining, pausing many times to kiss the golden strands or her bare shoulders. He felt every touch echo through the bond, a ghost of every sensation she felt.

And when he finished, she tackled him to the bed to make good on her promise.

(If this had been a Mannish village, it would have been no surprise to anyone that she fell pregnant only a month later, what with how the two of them carried on. As it stood, there were two days of general panic at the news, and some rather mortifying explanations of mortal reproduction.)


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 2 TITLE
Chapter 2


CHAPTER 2 INITIAL NOTES
content warning: references to past non-con in angband because it's angband

happy ending though i promise


CHAPTER 2
"Thou ought to come over for dinner tonight," said Lómion casually, tone belying the stain of red high on his cheeks. "I will cook something. I missed thee when I was away."

It was two weeks since his return from the mines, after an accident and ill winter weather had left him trapped for some time, and Tuor was delighted at the invitation, the first he had received since then. "I shall not fail thee. I have missed thee greatly, too."

Lómion squeezed his hand and went off to prepare.

That evening found them both in Lómion's small private dining room, and after the dinner itself (which was excellent; for Lómion would never allow himself mediocrity at any task), they retired to the drawing room next door, and Lómion curled up in Tuor's lap to share chocolate-dipped fruit and wine.

Lómion sighed in contentment after finishing his glass and set it aside. "My love," he said, "wouldst thou see me without braids?"

"I—" Tuor found himself at a loss for words, utterly tongue-tied. They were betrothed, yes, and had been for nearly nine years, but Lómion was ordinarily so reserved, and the unbinding of hair was considered to be for marriage alone.

But he did want desperately to see.

"I would, if thou art comfortable."

Lómion grinned. He sat up and turned so he sat face-to-face with his betrothed, straddling his lap, and reached up.

The ink-black hair, loosed of its confines, fell lock by lock into a mass of silky darkness, the naturally straight strands waved slightly from their time in braids. Tuor lost his breath as Lómion shook his head, allowing his hair to fall about his shoulders.

"May I—" he began, and was cut off.

"Ah, no," said Lómion. "Thou and I are not married yet, but soon, perhaps."

"Truly? Thou art ready?"

"I had a great deal of time to think, stuck in the tunnels," he said. "I do not want to be without thee. Forgive me, but I have grown impatient!" He pulled Tuor towards himself into a deep kiss.

When they separated, Tuor said, "Then let us set a date for the joyful event! When would please thee to wed?"

"Why wait? The ceremony can come later, the city can celebrate with us after the fact, and my impatience grows ever stronger. Let us tarry no longer than a month," he replied, and kissed him again. "Thou must take me to spouse."

Dazed and dizzy from the kiss and the delight of the coming marriage, Tuor could only nod.

 

 

Maeglin gripped the sides of his washbasin and willed himself not to be sick. If the guilt overtook him now, he could never marry the love of his life; they would all be dead in a matter of months whether he liked it or not. It was possible that Tuor might find out what he had done—even the curses of Morgoth could not block the bond between spouses—but thinking about that made him dizzy, for Morgoth wanted him unable to even think of revealing his treachery, so he stopped thinking it. He had moved up the wedding because otherwise he would never have it, only that and no other reason.

It would be—bearable. He could not convince himself that it would be good.

But though he knew there were still marks on him from Angband (or at least felt them in his dreams), the sight was hidden even from him; Tuor still thought his new husband to be the honorable and handsome (at least to him) and faithful elf to whom he had pledged his troth. He would be loving and considerate, at least until he realized. And he was possessed at least of no claws, or sharp teeth, or cruel disposition, and his skin was not uncomfortably hot to the touch, and his release would not scald and leave Maeglin burning from the inside out, so it could hardly be so bad.

It would distress Tuor to be bonded to a faithless traitor, he knew, and the thought tore at him. But things never needed to get that far, for he had been told in his youth that there were signs that a lover had been unfaithful, and these would be noticed before the bond formed, and if not, his infidelity would keep the bond from truly settling, and the fragile thing could be broken.

Marry me, marry me now and we will have the ceremony later at the Gates of Summer, he had said when he returned from Angband, and meant That is the last chance there is to execute me properly and with the spectacle that is due the death of a traitor, because thou must go hence from here before Morgoth makes it thy grave.

It had been so simple to seduce him, to convince him to marry without a proper wedding, to speak their vows with only Itarillë as witness and Eärendil to cheer. I am thine for all my days, he had said, which was not many days now, but he knew he must leave loopholes to unbind his love from him upon his death, if not sooner. Eternal faithfulness I pledge, he had said, he who had no right to speak of faithfulness.

There had always been, since the curse of his father, a distant tug of a thread reminding him of Caragdûr, but now it was a cold, clear line.

He took a deep breath. His husband awaited him, and did not know the depths of his treachery, not yet, and if he could endure - that - he could allow the one he loved to stain himself by touching him, and act happy, and maybe even pretend for a few brief moments that this was a normal and joyous wedding night and not a desperate confession to treason.

Maybe if he showed Tuor his memories of what had happened he would understand, would know he was no willing traitor—no. There was no such thing as unwilling treason, only treason, and he had not been unwilling. His recollections were fuzzy at best, but he knew this. Morgoth had made an offer, and he had said no, and later he had said yes, and sometime after the no (but possibly before the yes) hands had been laid on him and he had been forced—not forced. He had hardly resisted at all, nor died of violation, and there had been very little force involved. That was what made it unfaithfulness instead of just tarnish. Either made him unfit for marriage, but what he had allowed—what he had done was worse.

At least he could convince everyone, most likely, to kill him instead of leaving him for Morgoth. He might deserve to be made Sauron's pet, as the úmaia had told him he would be after the city fell, but few would be cruel enough to abandon him to that fate, even if when he had been given a taste of what was in store he had barely fought, let alone had the good grace to fade.

Everything was fine. Tuor would realize and put the pieces together and know what Maeglin had done. And Maeglin would experience no undue pain. If he could silence his mind, he might even enjoy himself up until the realization.

(It would be easier if the one he loved were not so attentive, were the kind to take all he was offered without a second thought. If it were impersonal.)

He took another steadying breath, removed the outer layers of his clothing (still no marks, even if he could yet feel the hands on him), and went to join his husband.

 

 

Tuor brightened when his husband reentered the room, tossing his outerclothes on a chair with uncharacteristic untidiness.

He was a glorious creature.

His shining dark hair was not yet loosed from its crown of braids, but some tresses fell from it beguilingly, hinting at the loveliness that Tuor knew was bound up there, having seen it before. He wanted nothing but to light Lómion's pale skin head to toe with a glowing blush, to feel that hair in his hands, to touch—

But he must be patient. He must wait until asked to do those things and fulfill the dreams of longing that had so often crept to him in the late hours. He could wait forever if asked to by those sweet lips and piercing eyes, even if it was all he could do to hide away the desire to pull his handsome husband to bed and ravish him, for that train of thought would get him called loutish uncouth outlaw in that tone of voice, which—which would not be entirely unwelcome (scorn being a cornerstone of how Lómion loved), but not at all the right tone for their wedding night.

He, at least, would be endeavoring to make the experience romantic and tender, as such things ought to be, even if a great deal of their courtship had been passionate rivalry and affectionate enmity.

"My sweet earthen jewel," he said, "wilt thou come to me, and let me hold thee?"

And so Lómion came to him, his thin robe whispering across the floor, and took advantage of the rare occurrence of being taller than Tuor, tilting his chin up to kiss him. Tuor placed his hands upon his husband's corseted waist and pulled him closer, eager to feel his warmth.

Husband, husband, husband, his mind chanted, ceaseless in the wonder of their newly wedded state, a joyful litany. What else could he possibly think about, when all his senses were filled by Lómion?

When they broke, he trailed his hands to the laces of the corset (front lacing, because even on his wedding day Lómion wore only the most practical versions of his impractical fashions), and waited for permission.

Lómion nodded.

Tuor pulled at the laces, untying the bow and pulling each lace free, one by one. It was a careful task, rhythmic, and Lómion's breath grew steadily heavier.

The corset fell to the floor. The robe soon followed.

Tuor pressed a kiss to his husband's bare shoulder and felt him shudder.

Lómion tugged at Tuor's tunic. "Thou must undress, too. It is only fair. I will tear it if I must."

He hurried to divest himself of his clothes, but ran into a problem. "Love, thou must let go of me if I am to remove this."

"Too bad. I am uninterested in not touching thee."

It took some scrambling to maintain contact, but they managed, laughing, and when the fabric and the hair ornaments lay all in a disorderly heap upon the ground so too did they fall into one another on the bed.

"Hast thou any preferences for what we should do?" asked Tuor, too enamored with touching Lómion all over and watching his blush spread and burying hands in his silky hair to string two thoughts together into a plan. But he should very much love to—

"Not that," said Lómion. "Itarillë told me how distracted thou canst become when thou art permitted to use thy tongue. We may do that after. I want—" His sudden flash of embarrassment was so strong that Tuor could feel it, when normally Lómion's gift for ósanwe was only observation rather than expression and their souls were not yet twined.

But Tuor only smiled and scooted closer till their faces were only a breath apart. "What is it thou dost desire? Tell me, or I cannot satisfy thee."

Get—get up and sit, and lean on the pillows and headboard, and I shall be atop thee. The effort of speaking his desire, even though not aloud, seemed almost too much, and he shrank away.

Tuor pressed a reassuring kiss to his cheek. "A fine idea. But must I not ensure that thou art ready, that thou wilt feel no discomfort?"

I wish to feel thee inside and out, fëa and hröa. Wouldst thou make me wait?

"Only briefly, and only for thy enjoyment," he insisted.

Lómion disentangled himself and rolled onto his back. "Fetch me a pillow."

"They are fully within thy reach," he said, taking one and setting it beneath Lómion's head anyway, feeling his husband's hungry gaze wash over him.

"I like seeing thee move," came the shameless reply.

Tuor did try to be efficient, admirably so in his opinion, but there was simply so much to enjoy in the exploration, the touching, the taste—

"I shall kick thee in the head if thou dost not do as I told thee." A pause, and then, in a strained voice, when Tuor did not immediately obey, "Please."

That made him stop. And grin. "What was that? I don't think I heard thee quite right."

"I am not in the habit of begging."

"Pity." He returned to lavishing his attentions upon his husband's body.

Lómion let out a frustrated sound, bordering on an undignified whine. "Fine. Please get up here and take me, or I shall kick thee in the head."

"Hmm. If thou dost insist." He pulled away, and noted with satisfaction the way Lómion squirmed, as if regretting his command, but did as he had been told, and soon held Lómion upon his lap, just as they had been on the day he had first unbound his hair for him.

Lómion sank down upon him, and the bond began to knit together.

The feeling was indescribable, and not for lack of trying. With Itarillë he had sought to tell her how she made him feel in these moments, but there were no words or phrases in the happy medium between unpalatable poetics and outright obscenity. She was more in favor of the crude than the unbearably flowery, but he blushed to speak such words before a lady of high birth.

Good was a word that was accurate, though horribly vague, and right was little better. Connected was obvious, though he meant it more as the union of souls, and warm was easily intuited from elven physiology. Blissful, yes, but that was not a word grounded in the senses—

Stop trying to write me poetry. We are in the middle of something.

Lómion cautiously placed his hands on Tuor's shoulders, and Tuor placed one hand on his waist and one in his hair in return, just as Lómion rose slightly and sank down again.

There was little he could do to help the rhythm from his sitting position, but he tried, and Lómion leaned forward into him, allowing no space in between. The press of their bodies together was perfection, every point of contact a spark, Lómion himself a being of warmth and softness that he hid always under a facade of sharp ice.

But ah, he was far too silent! Tuor kissed his pointed ear, and was rewarded with a hitched breath, and so set his hands to work at pleasing his husband further. By then Lómion had wrapped his arms all the way around his shoulders in an embrace, clutching him as if to anchor himself.

Lómion's breathing grew more ragged, and Tuor brought a hand down to the place where they were joined, and with gentle ministrations brought him over the edge, himself following soon after.

In the quiet of their room they caught their breaths, still holding one another for dear life, and in the marriage bond Tuor felt a tug. He let himself be pulled, unsurprised that Lómion now desired mental intimacy alongside the physical, and found himself then in a cave glittering with crystals, illuminated by a shaft of light from up high where there was a break in the stone.

But Lómion took his hand and continued to pull him along, through passage after passage, some bright and some shadowed, and did not speak. But as they moved a rope appeared on Lómion's wrist, and on his ankle, then a chain on the other wrist, and more and more restraints until he could not move, and they stopped in a silent passage.

Footsteps. Coming closer. The sound of a pickaxe.

"What is—"

"Shh! Only a memory."

Tuor waited. Then a different Lómion appeared, dressed in his mining clothes and carrying his equipment, but the footsteps were not his, and they continued drawing closer. The memory flicked his ears and drew forward...

The fight was short. The orcs appeared from the shadows, and the memory had enough warning to dodge their initial attack, but he was unarmed.

Tuor could only watch, helpless, as the memory of his love was dragged away in chains, screaming and unheard.

Do you see? Lómion asked, panicked. Do you see? Forgive me, this was all I could think of—

They snapped back into reality.

Lómion had already put his robe back on, and sat in a chair as far away from Tuor as possible, face wet with tears. "I have dishonored you by binding you to one who is faithless. No one will ever know it happened if we—break the connection. It was formed under false pretenses."

Somehow it was the word you that hurt the most. They were past such things, were they not? Why did he insist on distance?

"I—" What could he even say in these circumstances? What had happened? Lómion had lied about what occurred on the trip, and he had been captured, and enchantments bound him. It must be the work of Morgoth, and he had called himself faithless—

"Do we need to leave the city?"

He dipped his head. "I cannot answer that. You saw what chains lie upon me." That was probably a yes. "I give you my word that I will not run away if you wish to go home tonight and forget you ever touched me."

"Indeed, I wish there had been some other way, that thou wouldst not have felt as if thou must lie with me," said Tuor, hoping that saying thou was not crossing a line and wishing desperately that he had not hurt the one he loved. "I wish thou couldst have truly chosen, and not put thyself through this."

"I wish you could have had a good husband. Shall I do away with the bond? Let me spare you that, at least; you need not have it known that such a disgrace deceived you into marriage. I—" He shut his eyes. "I was unfaithful. So it should be fragile, given that I lied in my vows and all. An unwanted scrap of a thing."

And it cut deeply, but... Lómion had taken years to even think of confessing his feelings. How could he have been unfaithful in a matter of weeks? How could anything occurring in Angband be blamed on him?

"No," he said, and went to kneel before the chair, taking Lómion's hands in his. "Listen, I beg thee; thou hast saved us all. A brief heartbreak is nothing. I thank thee truly for thy ingenuity, and I am honored by thy trust. I will not divorce thee unless it is thy will; how could I be ashamed to be the husband of one so brave, so resilient?"

"I am neither. Not enough."

"Enough. More than enough, enough not only to survive but to plan and to warn! I am in awe of thee, as I have been since our meeting and compounded every day since." He squeezed his hands. "Tell me to go and I will go. But I had rather stay with thee."

Lómion gave a sob. "Thou wilt see the error of thy ways in the morning."

"Never."


CHAPTER 2 FINAL NOTES
comments appreciated!