TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Letters Perfectly Formed	Praisetotheunknown	2024-02-14	2024-02-14	1,431	1/1	6	28	4	186

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
General Audiences	Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Fëanor | Curufinwë & Míriel Þerindë | Míriel Serindë	Fëanor (Tolkien), Míriel Þerindë | Míriel Serindë	basically miriel learning to read the tengwar, expect canon levels of sadness, Halls of Mandos (Tolkien), i suppose namo and vaire are mentioned but not enough to tag, Not Beta Read, Tengwar, Quenya Names

SUMMARY
In which Miriel learns to read and write the Tengwar, and in the process learns more about their maker.

AKA I had thoughts about Feanor and Miriel (again).

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Letters Perfectly Formed


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
Hope you enjoy!

Quenya names in end-notes if needed.


CHAPTER 1
The works of someone's hands revealed much about the maker — of this Míriel was well aware. Everyone left pieces of themselves in their works, and she herself did so more than most.

   Her chief intent in learning the Tengwar had at first been to read of what went on in the world beyond the abodes of Námo and Vairë. For she had started to feel restless — just as she was not-quite alive, but not-quite dead, she felt unwilling to join the world as one living, but unwilling also to let go of the living world entirely. She wished to learn of the great advancements and events that went on beyond.

   But now her foremost urge was to know the letters themselves, rather than simply what they conveyed. For the work of someone's hands revealed much about the maker. For the soul of the maker was laid bare in the works of their hands.

   And of the maker of these letters? Of him she wished to know dearly.

 

Míriel examined the letters with narrowed eyes.

   They were written out in a careful hand for what seemed to be an academic work regarding the merits of the Tengwar and the Sarati as scripts. The work was fascinating, and the Tengwar themselves, though made foremost for being more suited to use than Rúmil's letters (and in this she had to admit that her son proved superior to her friend, save for the matter of tehtar), were undeniably beautiful. There was grace in every swoop and curl, and she felt almost as though she could hear the sounds that had been put down upon the page.

   In this aspect, the Tengwar seemed to share an uncanny similarity with her own work.

   The author, she noticed, had a sweeping, elegant hand, letters perfectly formed in both scripts, and the manuscript was written in both, as would have been necessary for an explanation of the work in early years, when they were Fëanáro's letters, and not simply 'the letters'. Þerindion had been written in the same sure hand across the top of every page.

   The representation of sound must be such, he wrote, that any text written in a script may be read by one who knows it, regardless of whether the reader can understand the tongue in which the text is written, or of whether the reader is sundered from the writer by time and thus unfamiliar with the language as it was in the past. In such a way, thought and meaning may be passed on and remain forever preserved.

   That 'forever' may be an illusion, or something as unattainable as a glorious, wishful dream (an idea prevalent in the author's later works), was one that was here notably absent.

 

***

 

It was after she had woven the last thread into a tapestry of fire and death (he burned in death, she thought, just as he did in birth and in life) that Míriel first attempted to write using the Tengwar.

   Much time had passed since Míriel had put a quill to paper, and the replication of the elegant script that she had spent much of her recent time reading was far harder than anticipated. To make matters worse, her work for Vairë took up far too much of her time, and she was forced to abandon the study of the Tengwar and their maker for some time. But she persisted nevertheless, her childlike letters growing more shapely as time passed, seeming almost threaded through the paper. She wrote down old tales that she had never whispered into a drowsy child's ears, and composed scores of the Song that had gone into her works, lost to the world save for in her memory, and now in her writing. She wrote unsent letters to loved ones who were still living on other shores and would most likely be unable to read them, and arguments burning with the raging life in her that was still not enough to keep her alive in any conventional sense. Her hand became as deft with a quill as it was with a needle, and save for when she was working with cloth and weaving, the stains of ink gently graced her fingers.

   The very fingers that, one day, while in the middle of putting an old walking song onto paper, stilled at the presence of another in Míriel's workroom. The presence of one who was as familiar to her as he was unfamiliar.

   The spirit of the maker, known to her only through his works.

 

   His fire seemed almost spent, now little more than an ember flickering near where his heart would be, and Míriel found it a wonder that Námo had given him leave to wander the Halls — she would not have expected it from the harshness of his Doom. He was merciful, she knew from experience, and had been as kind to her as his role permitted, but she did not know that his mercy was so great.

   Perhaps, thought Míriel, Nienna put him up to it. That seemed far more likely to her.

   She waited for him to speak.

   Mother? he spoke into her mind. His voice, or at least that of his mind, she noticed distantly, was not as steady as his hand.

   'Yes,' she whispered. 'Yes.'

   He moved towards her, slowly. I'm sorry, he told her.

   'I am, too.'

   There was a pause. Then:

   Do you... do you hate me? he asked.

   'No.' On this Míriel was firm. There were many things that she felt for her son — admiration, love, the desire to know him, the urge to subject him to a sound telling-off (though Námo would have done the latter more than satisfactorily) — but hate was not one of them. It never would be.

   He inched closer, peering at her desk cautiously.

   Míriel suddenly felt a surge of something remarkably similar to what her apprentices had admitted feeling upon presenting one of their works to her. A sort of embarrassment, mingled with some pride.

   She pushed the scroll forward before she could think better of it, and watched as he read.

   Some time passed.

   And then, a soft thought: Do you like it?

   Did she like it? 'You seem to have the question wrong,' said Míriel, smiling softly. 'Do you like it, Fëanáro? Have I done your work appropriate justice?' Was that too bold? After all, she knew nothing of him save for what she had gleaned from his works.

   Yes. Yes! The ember by his heart shot out frenzied sparks. More than appropriate justice!

   She did not think she had ever heard higher praise.

   Thank you, she told him, heart suddenly lighter than it had been in years. Perhaps those years of work had done something. Perhaps she knew him better now than she could have ever hoped. Thank you.

   But do you like it? he asked again. Míriel stilled, and his words began to flow, more quickly now that they had spoken a little. I always wanted to see your hands write these letters — my letters. But you've made so many beautiful things, and I...well. Nothing I've made is beautiful anymore, and its ruin is entirely my fault — I cannot show any of it to you and ever expect you to be proud of it, or find joy in it. Except, just maybe, my letters. My script. You probably think it's just as tainted and ruined as anything else that ever came of my hands, and it probably is tainted, but it's the only remotely beautiful thing that I still have to show you. My only work left unsullied.

   He paused, quivered a little, then asked, for a third time, more softly than before: So. Do you like it?

   'Yes,' she said, and beckoned him closer. The ember by his heart seemed to grow to a flame, small but steady. 'I do like it. I have loved it since I first set eyes on it, and it is, despite anything you may think, truly very beautiful.'

   And at last he closed the distance between them and settled, insofar as two spirits (or as close to a spirit as Míriel was) could touch, into her embrace.

   She would tell him later that his worse deeds did not make his works any less fair. Tell him that he too, despite everything, deserved to heal — if even Moringotto himself did, then he, her son, certainly did. Tell him that she would love him even if he had not a single accomplishment to his name, or even a thousand misdeeds more.

   But for now, this was enough.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Side note: the thing about the tehtar is me projecting my personal opinion -- I think they're a lot more efficient (especially for Quenya) than 'full letters' lol

A note on names:
- 'Fëanáro' is the Quenya form of Feanor
- 'Þerindion' (Quenya) is 'son of the Broideress', which Feanor was said to call himself in (if I'm not wrong) 'The Peoples of Middle-earth'

Please feel free to point out any errors you notice!