TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
The Father of Stars and the Girl from Under the Stairs	Azalea_Tries_Somethings	2022-01-07	2022-01-07	1,109	1/1	12	422	35	5,665

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
General Audiences	Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings	Harry Potter - J. K. Rowling, The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien, TOLKIEN J. R. R. - Works & Related Fandoms

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Harry Potter & Maglor | Makalaurë	Maglor | Makalaurë, Harry Potter, Dudley Dursley	Female Harry Potter, Found Family, Maglor's Special Kind of Adoption, Dad Maglor, Hurt Harry Potter, Abused Harry Potter, Abusive Dursley Family (Harry Potter), To Be Continued, hopefully, Quenya

SUMMARY
Maglor, after Ages of wandering, is still singing his laments at the shore, a piece of an Age long forgotten.
Harriet Potter, Freak, during a "family" vacation, is running from Dudley.
Maglor hasn't let anything stop him from adopting children, and he isn't going to start now.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
The Father of Stars and the Girl from Under the Stairs


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 1
Maglor was wandering the beach as usual, in the distance he could see some of the Edain enjoying the beach. He had been wandering for Ages at this point and he and his kin had all faded to myth, many of the other, more magical kinds had followed. He hurt, though not as much as before, and he lingered on past regrets. As he saw several children chase after each other in the distance he was hit with a sudden pang as he thought of Elrond and Elros; Elros had long since accepted the Gift of Mortals and passed into the unknown, he was so proud of his son. Elrond, on the other hand had chosen the Eldar and had become Lord of Rivendell, going on to have three children, the youngest having followed her uncle’s footsteps for her lover. Maglor was proud of Elrond too, though he knew he would never return his love now that he knew what Maglor truly was.

Maglor was so lost in his thoughts and regrets, as was normal, that he failed to notice the group of children that was now running right to him; this close he could see it was a group of boys chasing after a small, skinny child. The boys seemed to be following a small, overly rotund boy and a rat-like boy right next to him, the rotund boy had a nasty grin on his face and was huffing and puffing as he ran.

“C’mere Freak! We aren’t done playing with you yet!”

The boy’s words startled Maglor with how much disdain and hate they held and made the small child in front of them run even faster, eyes wide behind their glasses. Maglor saw the exact moment the child tripped over their too large pants, more threadbare and tattered than his own clothes, and was sent sprawling onto the sand. The other children had seen this and had corralled around the smallest children with nasty grins and were now taunting them.

The baby whale spoke the loudest, “C’mon Freak, let’s play Freak Hunting!”

The child grew pale, shaking their head frantically as their deep green eyes grew wide behind their glasses.

“Awwww, is the freak gonna cry?” The rat faced boy voiced from beside the plump child.

“I think it is!” The shout was gleeful and sent out another wave of laughter as the little pig grinned nastily. “Alright, Freak, you have until three. One.”

The child scrambled to their feet, trying to find balance in the sand and get away from the children encircling them.

“Three!”

“Enough!”

Maglor’s cry of protest startled him even as he swept towards the children, pushing the child behind him. “Why do you taunt her? What harm has she caused you?”

The pig scrunched his face, “She’s a Freak! She deserves it and everything else!”

Maglor’s heart sank at the sense of foreboding that accompanied the boy’s words and he snuck a glance at the girl behind him. The child had shifted so that her hands were tangled with his belt and faded grey cloak, pressing close to him and trying to hide under her unruly hair. The girl looked up at him with eyes that were both pleading and resigned, as if she expected him to push her away after he heard that. Giving the girl a reassuring look he turned back to the boy, only he remained as the others had run when Maglor had raised his voice.

“Leave her be, child. From what I have seen she is both braver and kinder than you, return to your parents!”

The rotund boy glared at him in anger before he rushed up and kicked Maglor’s leg, “You won’t get away with this! My mummy and dad will come and get her and then he’ll set you both straight!”

As the boy turned and fled back the way they had come Maglor turned so he was kneeling at the girl’s level, though he was still much taller than her.

“Child? Art thou well?”

She blinked at him, large eyes still wary but grateful, and nodded her head slightly.

He huffed, “I have had several younger brothers and two sons, I know when a child is lying. Where are thou hurt, titta er?” (Little one)

The girl shifted, eyed him wearily once more, before holding out her arm. From what Maglor could see, she had scraped her hand and there was sand on the scrapes, further up her arm was a red imprint of a rather large hand. Maglor seethed inside even as he gently took the girls hand and shifted it so he would have better access to her hand; he felt strangely protective of the girl, even more so than when he had first met the twins.

Reaching for his waterskin with his burned hand he pulled her hand closer and started to murmur reassuring to her, “Peace, melin er. I have to wash your wound and then I can heal it.” (Dear one)

The girl barely flinched as he poured the water over her scraped palm, eyes never leaving him, always attentive. Once he was sure she was clean, he began to Sing; the girl watched with wide eyes, not used to anyone helping her or using magic. The Song itself had no title and was a generic healing Song, one for scrapes and bruises attained by small children. Maglor frowned as he continued to Sing; the girl had far more bruises and other afflictions than was healthy for anyone.

“Oh, titta er, what has been done to you?” (Little one)

Her eyes watered as she shied away from him and curled into herself. Maglor sighed and, making his movements clear, he reached out and wrapped his arms around the girl, pulling her close. The girl shook in his arms and pressed close to him, trying to curl into him, looking for some form of comfort. Maglor held her close, murmuring assurances in Quenya, and gently looking into her mind. Maglor seethed as he observed the girl’s relatives and felt his heart break as he held her closer. The girl had suffered through so much, had been hurt so much, and she still found comfort from him.

“Look at me, titta er. You never have to go back to them, never. I no longer make vows but know this: I will make sure you are safe. I am not the person you deserve, but I will help you.” (Little one)

Maglor stood up, still holding onto the girl, and started walking back to his home, his lament.

“You are safe now, melin er, you are safe now.” (Dear one)


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Alright, so; this is my first fic, I have plans of turning this into a series eventually, but I still have to iron some things out. I will try to update this every week, usually on the weekends. If you want to come throw things at me my tumblr is the-souldreamer, creative, I know.