TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Get Off My Lawn	Khornenatter	2023-08-03	2023-08-06	2,299	2/2	4	36	5	446

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
General Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Maedhros | Maitimo & Oromë (Tolkien), Finwë/Indis (Tolkien), Celegorm | Turcafinwë & Maedhros | Maitimo, Celegorm | Turcafinwë & Oromë	Maedhros | Maitimo, Oromë (Tolkien), Celegorm | Turcafinwë, Original Male Character(s)	Valinor, Quenya Names, Fluff and Humor, MY CABBAGES, Maitimo Invents Lawyers, Celegorm Needs Additional Parents

SUMMARY
When Tyelkormo destroys one of the palace gardens, his parents are called to reign him in. Instead the next available forces with the power to discipline him arrive

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Chapter 1


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
Written following this request by AslansDaughter:

Tyelko gets in trouble and Maitimo and Oromë show up to bail him out with matching innocent "of course we're his parents" faces, because Mae already asked for a word that meant "non bio parental figure" and asked for the legal documentation

And the Quenya guide it invokes:

nér - man, a male elf (at least intended to mean male elf in this case)
hínacámo - word I came up with combining hína (child), cáma (responsibility) and -mo, therefore hopefully meaning "one with responsibility of child", or "non bio parental figure"
Tyelko's parents are urgently called to the palace. Guest-starring High King "if people are already shouting before I got out of bed, this day is too doomed to get out of bed at all" Finwë

CHAPTER 1
Tarwandil was beloved for being mild-tempered and easy-going. Somehow, he managed to balance his devotion to gardening with a love for children playing in gardens. The many young princes and princesses the Noldor now had left many a wrecked flower-bed in their wake, but usually he was quick to forgive them. After all he knew better than to plant delicate flowers near their favoured playing spots.

This time however, the young prince in question had felt particularly adventurous and thoroughly wrecked a plot Tarwandil had spend a lot of time on. All that time spent researching the most delicate of Yavanna’s creations he had long wished to be allowed to tend to! All that time spent teaching the palace dogs to chase away rabbits and birds from that plot! The lengths he had gone to just to ensure the location of the plot would receive exactly the needed amount of treelight at all times! The care with which he had ventured to find the seeds and transport them to the palace! But no matter how uncharacteristically furious Tarwandil was, the delinquent in question was still a prince and he was but a palace gardener, no matter how well-regarded. Therefore he glared to keep prince Turkafinwë in place and sent for the postmaster to have the parents come and discipline their child. He asked for the quickest messenger birds available to deliver the requests. He’d mourn the flowers later, when the offender was dealt with.

The first one to arrive was neither crown prince Curufinwë nor crown princess Nerdanel. In fact they weren’t even a Noldo. Their arrival was accompanied by what could only be described as an aura of dread that made Tarwandil shiver despite his fury. He suddenly felt watched, nay stalked, as if a terrible predator had entered the palace gardens just now. Only a moment later he understood this was exactly what happened. The Hunter didn’t look dangerous or even anything but average and inconspicuous: the form of an average-sized nér with hair the colour of hazelnuts, braided back to reveal an average face. Clothes coloured in browns and greens not unlike those in the forests, just a humble hunter’s attire. And yet the way he moved and the way his mood affected his surroundings betrayed him as one of the Vala, one who easily touched the Song.

“Turkafinwë Tyelkormo Curufinwion, have you forgotten everything you were taught about respect?”, Oromë said sternly and goosebumps formed on Tarwandil’s arms even though he wasn’t the recipient of these words, nor had the Vala raised his voice to a shout.

The addressed elfling looked appropriately ashamed, not daring to meet the Vala’s eyes. His response was but a whisper.
“No, Lord Oromë. I am not to needlessly take animal nor plant.”

“Then why am I called here to reign you in after destroying an entire garden?”
The intensity of the Hunter’s dismay grew, as did the dread stirring within Tarwandil.

The gardener did not dare ask the Vala why he was here to scold prince Turkafinwë instead of the elfling’s parents. Thankfully he spotted a red-head nearing the scene. Tarwandil’s relief faded near instantly. The amount of Valar laying claim to Turkafinwë did not increase, but the amount of parents didn’t either. Instead of lady Nerdanel the Wise, the one closing in was her firstborn. Prince Nelyafinwë was a sensible one but still no parent, still not one with authority over the unruly younger prince. In passing Tarwandil noticed how unsurprised, how unaffected prince Nelyafinwë seemed of a Vala scolding his younger brother in the midst of the palace gardens of Tirion. The lanky young man strode past them to take a look at the plot in question, tutted disapprovingly, stepped back and turned around to look at the shamed elfling.

“Now you’ve done it, Tyelko. You probably weren’t aware Tarwandil began working on this project long before Makalaurë’s begetting, were you?” he added to Oromë’s scolding, then faced Tarwandil. “I hope you didn’t have to wait long, I came as fast as I could when I received the message. Of course we’ll take responsibility for his reckless actions – at least as much as is possible with a project of this amount of dedication. For now we’ll keep him out of the palace gardens until he can be trusted not to wander off and destroy any more flower-beds.”

By now Tarwandil was utterly and entirely overwhelmed with just about every aspect of this situation. First the third son of the crown prince destroyed decades of research, work, passion and dedication. Then a Vala came to his gardens to scold said third son, claiming to have been called by a message, as did the crown prince’s firstborn. The crown prince’s firstborn, who was somehow aware of just how much of himself Tarwandil had given into this project and seemed to include the attending Vala in his mentions of “we’ll take responsibility”. Oh, and he expected Tarwandil to answer, amidst all his grief, fury, awe, fear and confusion.

“I am going to ask Yavanna for seeds of the plants my disciple destroyed,” Oromë the Hunter now addressed Tarwandil. “That is the least I can do for your beloved garden.”

Even caught in his whirling emotions, Tarwandil found the strength needed to answer the Vala with a nod at least. At the very least he did not want Oromoë’s dismay turn towards him.
“I … ah … thank you, Lord Oromë,” he somehow forced himself to say. After the first syllables finally found the way out of his mouth, he found even more to form. “Ahm, prince Nelyafinwë, I am glad you found the way quickly … but, uhm, I had asked to have the message sent to the crown prince …”

“Oh no, this was not a mistake. I am his hínacámo, the postmaster knows of it,” prince Nelyafinwë answered nonchalantly as if his explanation made sense.

“As am I. Young Turkafinwë is my disciple, so as his teacher I share not only responsibility for his successes,” Oromë chimed in, his dismay and disappointment still saturating the Song surrounding him, keeping the offender in place.

“With … with … uhem, with all due respect, you cannot just decide to have the same responsibilities as the crown prince towards his children.” His fear of offending the Vala overcame any strength his fury had given him. Every try to bring out these words left the following words weaker, whinier, squeakier.

“Fear not Tarwandil, you are right to question our claims. It wouldn’t do if the people the high king holds dear allowed just about anyone to discipline the children of the royal families!” Prince Nelyafinwë gave him one of his encouraging smiles and dove into this bag of documents he always carried around with him in the palace. He found the document he needed quickly, carefully unfolding it to show it to Tarwandil. “This is a copy of the document in the palace’s administration. The postmaster also has a copy, for cases like today.”

The document was set up to allow prince Nelyafinwë Maitimo Curufinwion and Oromë to make decisions on behalf of prince Turkafinwë Tyelkormo Curufinwion’s well-being, education and discipline and was signed by the crown prince and the crown princess as well as prince Nelyafinwë and Oromë, complete with seals. The document itself was an official copy issued by the palace, confirming the authenticity.
The tall red-haired prince waited until he could be fairly certain Tarwandil had read the document and put it back in his bag. At least it seemed they didn’t expect him to answer any more, they simply began to escort the offending elfling away.

“To respect another doesn’t only mean to let them live. You wanted to learn how to craft leather, didn’t you?” Oromë said to prince Turkafinwë as he guided him away with a hand lightly touching the elfling’s shoulder. The young prince agreed. “Well, you’ve shown a concerning lack of respect for Tarwandil’s craft today, so I am not sure you are ready to appreciate your lessons. You won’t be taught any new skills by a member of the Hunt for a year, Tyelkormo. After this I hope you’ll be able to see the value crafts and their crafters bring to all of us.”

“A year? But that’s so loooong!”

“Is it, now?”

“But it feels too looong!”

“You only confirm my decision, young one. A year without lessons, to show you how crafts and respect for crafts form communities.”

“Someone get down there and tell them to cut it out! What is this commotion?!”

His wife’s bright, clear giggle answered his undignified request. He could hear her steps, light upon the soft rugs, as he guessed she went towards the windows or the balcony to look for the source.

“Oh do excuse me, but I won’t heed your order. I believe you love me too much to risk me telling a disgruntled Oromë to stop scolding your grandson below your favourite balcony, Finwë.”

The sleepy high king groaned and buried his face deeper in his pillow while pulling the blanket up in hopes of drowning out the noise. Maybe a Vala turning up in his garden to scold his grandchild was an omen.

“Then please tell Maitimo I sprained my wrist yesterday while working on these drafts and he is to lead the council in my absence today,” he muttered. “He can use the practice.”

Indis hummed in disagreement.
“I’m afraid that won’t be possible either. He just joined Oromë in scolding Tyelkormo.”

Again his first answer was a groan. Indis wouldn’t mind, she was used to him gaining his eloquence in the first hours after getting out of bed and not one moment before.

“That bad? Do I want to know? No, no, don’t tell me! I guess I’ll find out soon enough as it is,” Finwë told the pillow, less conversation than thinking out loud. “Then Indis dear, please tell Ñolo to lead the council. This is an omen and I am going to heed it! I am not going to king today.”

Bright giggling transformed into sweet laughter, soft steps drew closer towards the high king’s bed. He felt her soft lips touch his hair, as his face was buried in pillow and blanket.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
I chose a year for Tyelko's punishment because that should be a relatively short span of time for an elf (and feel incredibly long to a child, but oh well)

I couldn't quite figure out how to fit Oromë explaining his punishment to Maitimo within the story. Oromë does have a clear idea with the style of his punishment, though. Maybe I'll have to add an exchange of letters or a dialogue on that sometime


CHAPTER 2 TITLE
Lesson Plans


CHAPTER 2 INITIAL NOTES
Further insight into Maitimo's and Oromë's co-parenting. Plans are made Fëanáro won't be able to be oblivious to (in a year's time)


CHAPTER 2
Letter from Maitimo to Oromë
My highly esteemed Lord,

Thank you again for your hasty arrival at the palace! I write in accordance with our agreement not to discuss disciplinary decisions in attendance of our shared ward. As much as I agree with the lesson of your punishment, I worry withholding lessons for a year might cause a setback in a child’s development at his age. Also, we both know Tyelkormo well enough to set ourselves up to either having to thwart or punish frequent tries to gain knowledge in spite of the intended lesson in respect.

Therefore I humbly ask to learn your thoughts on this matter, either to be soothed or to find a compromise with you.

Your humble servant

Nelyafinwë Maitimo Curufinwion
Hínacámo of Turkafinwë Tyelkormo Curufinwion

Letter from Oromë to Maitimo
Dear Maitimo,

My thanks go out to you for raising awareness to the intensity of the loss this man suffered. I already met with Yavanna to bring this request up. Upon your next visit to the palace gardens you may soothe him: Yavanna holds him in high regard and as the loss of her creations was far from his fault, she is more than willing to lend her hand.

Apart from this I am glad our arrangement regarding young Tyelkormo works well as you entrusted your worries to me. I did think about the doubts you raised, yet my thoughts on these were not fit to be discussed in front of our ward.

I do not intend to withhold knowledge from him with this punishment. I specifically stated he may not be taught (by members of the Hunt, so his schooling is not endangered). Upon spending time with your kind and how knowledge is shared among them, I came to understand what makes a good teacher. Apart from well-known traits like patience and empathy, a good teacher is passionate about their subject.

As you may remember, Tyelkormo was set to learn leathercrafting from a member of my Hunt. It is her chosen craft, and not only does her passion grant her boundless curiosity and in-depth understanding of the subject, she greatly enjoys sharing her knowledge and the joy she draws from it. To slight her craft would mean to slight her, and she maintains the right to refuse teaching those who lack respect.
For your kin, teaching a craft means more than sharing knowledge. It means sharing joy and building companionship and community. This is the lesson I wish for Tyelkormo to learn within this year. As you wrote, he is going to try and learn by himself, and I would lie were I to say that isn’t part of my decision. Hopefully he will find my point emphasized by his tries.

Yavanna did bring up another point for us to consider: Tyelkormo needs to learn about responsibility, too. I already have an idea about this lesson, and the year of suspended lessons would serve well to prepare. Teaching responsibility works best by giving him responsibility over something he deeply cares about, and you mentioned he struggles with watching little Carnistir. He does love spending time around my hounds and caring for the horses when he arrives, though. Do you agree having him raise a puppy would serve our intention well? If so, the first step is to inquire how welcome a furry addition would be to your parents’ home. Do not fret though, none of this is going to happen before his year of learning respect is over, that I promise.

Sincerely

Oromë the Hunter


CHAPTER 2 FINAL NOTES
Ooops, it turned into a Huan origin story!

 

Also I used Curufinwion as patronym because I thought using the ataressë of the father would be more logical. It does make a conscious switch to Feanorion a much more loaded matter though, deciding to forego "son of the crafty Finwë" in favor of "son of the spirit of fire" after all that happened.

 

But for now, enjoy Yavanna comforting Tarwandil and Tyelko's second pair of parents planning to give him a puppy!