TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Family and Healing, Songs and the Sea	Azalea_Tries_Somethings	2022-01-08	2023-01-07	11,028	23/?	63	459	51	10,239

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
General Audiences	Creator Chose Not To Use Archive Warnings	Harry Potter - J. K. Rowling, The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien, TOLKIEN J. R. R. - Works & Related Fandoms

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Harry Potter & Maglor | Makalaurë	Maglor | Makalaurë, Harry Potter, Maedhros | Maitimo, Elros Tar-Minyatur, Elrond Peredhel	Found Family, Maglor's Special Kind of Adoption, Female Harry Potter, Dad Maglor, Abused Harry Potter, Abusive Dursley Family (Harry Potter), Quenya, Drabble CollectionOne Word Prompts, Tags May Change, Hurt/Comfort, Angst, Fluff, Referenced Kinslayings, Music, Maglor's harp - Freeform, Family Bonding, Quenya Names, Harry Potter Has a Different Name, Harry Potter was Adopted by Other(s), Sometimes family is an old beach cryptid and a baby witch, Selectively Mute Harry Potter, Maedhros Elros and Elrond appear in like one chapter but it still counts, Kidnap Dads, Good Parent Maglor, Maglor is Soft for His Children, Parselmouths & Parseltongue (Harry Potter), Walks On The Beach, Maedhros and Maglor are Both Good Dads, Regretful Maglor, Maglor Needs A Hug, Ára will give him that hug, and many more - Freeform

SUMMARY
This is a collection of drabbles for my AU where Maglor adopts Harri. It spans over the years between the time Maglor adopts Harri to the time she gets her Hogwarts letter.


CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Home


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 1
Maglor's house was...different. The Dursleys had always had her keep their house pristine, everything had to be perfect and up to their extremely high standards. Maglor's house was so very different from that. The house was, while not the largest, roomy. There were lots of different rooms; most were bedrooms, one was obviously Maglor's, and the others all seemed to belong to other people. All of the empty rooms looked like they had been made for specific people in mind, but no one had ever lived in them. The other rooms were empty studies; one of them was Maglor's own study, filled with books about music and other related items. Harri had her own room, it was small, and it had a window with a reading bench that she could look at the ocean through.

Harri had never had a home, not really. Petunia and Vernon had let her live in their home, but they had made it clear that she was expendable and that, should she step out of line, they would be happy to get rid of her. Her relatives had never cared for her and spread their hate to Dudley. Dudley had loved to attack her and had his friends help. The person who had looked after the most, was Mrs. Figg. Mrs. Figg had watched her whenever the Dursleys’ had gone out, not wanting to be in her presence more than needed.

For a while, she thought that the Dursleys were her family and that they could have loved her, though they proved her wrong. As her life had gone on, she realized that they had never loved her, and never would. The only thing she could even come close to calling her own was the cupboard under the stairs, and even then, it didn’t feel like hers. When she had made the mistake, just once, of call Petunia mum (“Please, Mum! I didn’t mean to do it-it just happened and-!” “Don’t you ever call me mother, you worthless freak! If it was up to us, you would be out the door! Go to your cupboard now! And don’t even think about coming out or getting food for a week!” Please, Aunt Petunia! I’ll be good, I’ll do better! I promise!” A slap. “Shut up, you little freak! Don’t you ever talk to me again!”) and she hadn’t spoken since that day.

Now though, now she had Maglor. Maglor was old, and tired, and so very sad, but he was home. She finally had a home, and she wasn’t going to let it slip away. Yes, Maglor had technically kidnapped her, but hadn’t the Dursleys done worse? No adult had made her feel safe or try to help her before, and Maglor had taken her with him, to keep her safe. Maglor made sure she was safe, he made her feel safe. She wasn’t ready to talk yet, but when she did, she would tell him what he meant to her. Harri hadn’t had a home before, but she did now, and maybe she had a chance at a family.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 2 TITLE
Forgiveness


CHAPTER 2 INITIAL NOTES
Maglor grieves and mourns, and gets some unexpected forgiveness.


CHAPTER 2
Maglor was sitting on the sand, the wind snatching at his hair, waves lapping at his feet, and absently playing his harp in his lap. Today had been…worse than others; he had dreamed of the Kinslayings, and the Oath was pulling harder than usual. The grief had been overwhelming, and he couldn’t have helped leaving his house, going to the shore, wading into the shallow waters, and Singing. He had Sang of his grief and his regrets and the wars and the atrocities he had committed. He didn’t know why he was still here, why he-of all his kin, of all his brothers-was still alive. He didn’t deserve to live while so many others had died, when his hands were drenched in blood and burned by his father’s greatest creation.

Off to his left, something moved. He turned; oh-it was the child. She had been with Maglor for several months now and he still did not know her name, and she still had not talked. As he watched detachedly, she wandered over to him and sat next to him, staring out at the sea. She offered no words, no movement, nothing, she just sat there. Maglor breathed deeply; he didn’t deserve this, didn’t deserve her quiet companionship, he didn’t deserve the fact that she sat with him so calmly and so unaware. He paused, the girl, she had-she had wrapped her arms around him, she was hugging him.

He broke, sobbing and curling into himself, letting out his grief. While Maglor cried and sobbed and mourned, the child held on never changing. Maglor calmed, breathing deeply, and stared at the girl in awe. Despite not knowing what was wrong, despite not knowing what he had done, she was there for him.

“Child, I do not-I do not deserve this.” An inhale. “I have done so many evil things, so many horrendous acts. I do not deserve forgiveness, this forgiveness.”

She shook her head, pressing her wild mane of curls against his ribs, and tightening her arms. Maglor stifled a sob again, curling around her.

“Oh, melin er, you are too kind. You have no idea what this means, no idea what I have done. I do not deserve you; you are a gift.” (Dear one)
Harri tightened her arms around Maglor; it was true, she did not know what he had done, but he had saved her. She may not be able to give him what he needed, but she could give him her forgiveness and thanks.


CHAPTER 2 FINAL NOTES
Again, this chapter is based off of a one-word prompt; I'm going to try to do these daily (And yes, it is technically past midnight, so it's not quite daily.) to build up some backstory.
If you have any questions or prompts, my tumblr is the-souldreamer.


CHAPTER 3 TITLE
Broken


CHAPTER 3 INITIAL NOTES
Something broken and some bonding time.


CHAPTER 3
Harri looked up from the book with a frown, Maglor’s music had stopped. This wouldn’t have been too unusual except for two things; the fact that he was in the middle of the song, and the dull yet noticeable twang that had accompanied the music stopping. Putting the book down Harri wandered into Maglor’s music room, Maglor was sitting on his chair, the one that was made from real wood and had deep green cushions, staring at the harp in his lap. The harp was easy to carry and made from a light brown wood, and, from what Harri had seen, it was one of Maglor’s favorites. Harri shuffled a bit closer, drawing Maglor’s attention to her. Pushing her untamable hair out of her eyes, she gestured to the harp and titled her head, asking what was wrong.

“One of the strings has broken, I hadn’t noticed it and had not changed it.”

Harri cocked her head to the other side and mimed tying something.

“Yes, it can be fixed.” Maglor had a soft smile on his face, the kind that said he was happy that she was “talking” with him.

She pointed to herself and then to her eyes.

A chuckle, “Yes, titta er, you can watch.” (Little one)

Harri grinned and tried not to bounce too much as Maglor stood up and grabbed a string from one of the boxes in the room. Watching Maglor restring his harp was interesting; he had done it before, she was sure, all his movements were practiced and sure. Still, what stood out to her the most was that Maglor was keeping his movements slow so she could watch, and that he seemed happy. Maglor would smile and give little chuckles when he was around her, but Harri hadn’t seen him this happy. It was like this was something important to him and he was happy she wanted to learn more about it.

“And, done. Well, titta nénar, what do you think?” (Little star)

The harp in question looked the same, but Maglor had a small smile on his face. Harri ginned, nodded, and gave him two thumbs up.

Maglor paused, seeming to consider something, and bit his lip. “Would you…would you like to learn? Learn to play the harp? Or maybe another instrument?”

Harri grinned, nodding enthusiastically, and moved closer to him.

Maglor blinked, and a pleasantly surprised look appeared on his face, “Well, if you are sure…”

Another enthusiastic nod.

“Very well. Now, the first thing you need to know is…”


CHAPTER 3 FINAL NOTES
Alright, since the last two chapters were a little bit angsty I decided to have something fluffy this time around.
Now, I need some opinions, should I give Harri a Quenya name?
If you want to yell at me or ask me questions, feel free to comment or bother me on tumblr at the-souldreamer.


CHAPTER 4 TITLE
Beginnings


CHAPTER 4 INITIAL NOTES
Harri changes and panics, Maglor notices, and something is given.


CHAPTER 4
Harri was staring at the stars, it wasn’t anything new as she and Maglor had done it plenty of times before, but this was different. Usually, Harri would be captivated by the stars, or Maglor singing, or a book, but this time she was lost to thought. She had been with Maglor for a while now, neither of them honestly knew how long, and she was different. It was subtle at first; her skin beginning to tan, her growing taller as all kids did, but then the other changes had happened. Her ears were slowly beginning to become pointed, her hair was becoming tamer, though it was still half the battle to get it to behave, and then there was the most important change, in her mind. When she had walked by a mirror earlier, she noticed it: her eyes looked like Maglor’s. They were shaped differently, and, while she was sure they would never become Maglor’s own gray, their color had changed noticeably to a sage green. She looked like she could pass as Maglor’s own child right now, and she wasn’t sure what to think of it.

All her life, Petunia and Vernon had told her that her parents were worthless drunkards, now that she lived with Maglor she doubted that, but the thoughts still lingered. So now, with her beginning to look more and more like Maglor, with her beginning to look like his child, she couldn’t help but worry. It was another sign of her Freakishness. Maglor had been kind to her so far, but the sign of her Freakishness would probably change that. It wouldn’t be long before he noticed the changes as she had, and then she would be without a home again.

“Child, what is wrong?” She hadn’t heard Maglor approach.

She shook her head, not looking at him. Nothing was wrong, why was he askin-oh. She was crying, she hadn’t cried in over a year. Now that she had noticed, it was like something had broken, she couldn’t stop.

“Oh! Hush child, hush melin er, thou art well, thou art safe.” (Dear one)

It carried on like this for a while; her crying in Maglor’s arms as he murmured reassurances to her in his own language, eventually the torrent of tears ended.

“Titta er? Could thou tell me what caused this?” (Little one)

She sniffed, wiped her tears, and pulled away slightly. With trembling hands, she pulled her curls away from her ears, hearing Maglor’s soft gasp, and then pointed to her eyes.

“Oh, melin er, you thought this would upset me? That this would offend me in some way?” (Dear one)

A shaky nod.

“Oh, no, mime titta er. While I do not know how this came to be, I am honored that this happened.” (My little one)

A sniffle and a head tilt.

“Elflings are so, very rare. That you chose to look like me, it is something I thought I would never see: a child of my own.”

Harri sniffled again, curling into his arm and wrapping her arms around his torso, and nodded.

Maglor brushed his fingers through her hair, “Child, may I, I would be honored to claim you as my own, but I do not deserve you.”

As Maglor glanced away Harri tugged herself closer to him, looking at him with wet eyes, curling her fingers into his shirt. Maglor looked at her with wide eyes, now suspiciously wet, and she stared into them, trying to tell him that she didn’t want him to go.

“D-da-ad.” Her voice was hoarse and stuttering from little use, but she managed to get the word out.

Maglor sobbed and curled around her, holding her close. The two of them layed there, wrapped in each other’s arms as the sun peaked over the waves.

“Atto.” Maglor said, wiping at his eyes. “That is how you say father in Quenya, my born tongue.”

Harri frowned, “At-tto. My A-atto.”

Maglor nodded, seeming close to tears again, “Yes. Yes. I am your Atto, and you are my iel, my daughter. My Lauriëára, my Golden Dawn.”

Harri paused, cocking her head to the side, before nodding. “Yes, Atto and Ára.”

Maglor smiled, full of love and overwhelming happiness as they turned to stare at the rising sun cresting over the waves, still wrapped in each other’s arms.


CHAPTER 4 FINAL NOTES
Alright, this is super fluffy, and I nearly cried writing this. Harri will now be referred to as Ára for the rest of the series with few exceptions.
I believe that the twins, Elrond and Elros, called Maglor Atto and Maedhros Atya, so Maglor would prefer that over another connotation.
As for Maglor's weird way of talking, I believe that he sometimes sounds more formal and old because of the shift in languages over the years, both in English/Westron and Quenya
I've narrowed down a few details for the main work now, but I'm not quite finished. I plan to have it start in Ára's fifth year, so I'm going to add another work to the series dictating what's happened for her other four years and the differences between Ára's life and Harry's.
Again, any prompts or questions, comment below or bother me on tumblr @ the-souldreamer.


CHAPTER 5 TITLE
Gift


CHAPTER 5 INITIAL NOTES
Maglor worries and Ára gets a gift.


CHAPTER 5
Maglor shifted the package nervously in his arms as he stood in the family room. Ára was sitting in the other room, flipping through a book of sheet music, with half her hair pulled back. Maglor couldn’t help but feel a sense of love and relief as he thought of her new name. Lauriëára; his Golden Dawn, his third child, his only girl. He couldn’t help but feel a bitter sense of love as he thought of the twins. Elrond and Elros had been a small spark of light in his and Maedhros’ life at that point, their little stars. Pulling his attention away from those thoughts before he could get lost in his memories, he turned his attention back to his daughter.

“Ára? Could you come here, mime -iel?” (My daughter)

He could here soft steps pattering into the room and watched as she curled into her chair next to the fireplace.

“Yes, Atto?”

Maglor shifted to sit into his own chair across from her, “I have something for you, melin er.” (Dear one)

Ára tilted her head to the side, eyebrows furrowing over eyes that now looked closer to his own.

“I know that I have not done this before, but I felt that it would be something you would enjoy.” Stifling his nerves, and, willing his hands not to shake, he passed the package over to her.

Ára looked at it with a small look of awe, the same look she wore whenever she was presented with something she never had. Her gaze slipped back up to him and grinned; small, and thankful, and heartfelt. “Thank you, Atto.”

“You are welcome, titta nénar. Now, go on, open it.” (Little star) Again, the term of endearment that he had called the twins slipped out, though he was paying more attention to the fact that she was speaking with him.

Ára gasped as she unwrapped the plain brown paper to reveal the case her gift was in, the unique shape giving it away, and opened the case. The wood of the instrument was a beautiful and smooth reddish-brown and the white vines and stars that wrapped around the edges looked both stark and soft. The violin was beautiful and stunning, and seeing Ára’s look of awe made Maglor’s nerves ease. Maglor watched as she picked up the bow and drew it across the strings the way he had taught her, playing a few sweet and curious notes. As he watched Ára carefully set the violin back in its case with the bow atop it and had a moment to brace before she rushed towards him.

“Thank you, Atto! Thank you!”

Maglor chuckled, “Of course, melin hon.” (Dear heart)

Ára grinned, head tilting to the side slightly, before pointing to his harp and then her violin.

“You wish to play together? A duet?”

Enthusiastic nodding.

“Very well, go and find the song you wish to play.”

As Ára dashed away to the other room Maglor grinned to himself. Ára seemed to lighten the burden he carried, and he was glad to call her kin, to call her his daughter. He hadn’t been this happy in Ages, Ára was good for him, and he hoped he was good for her in turn. He turned to the door as she came back into the room, holding the sheet music.

“This one? Very well, melin er, as thou wish.” (Dear one)

Yes, Maglor was very glad to have a daughter now.


CHAPTER 5 FINAL NOTES
Some Maglor and Ára bonding time.
I plan on starting the work about Ára's Hogwarts years sometime this week.
Again, comments, questions, and prompts are welcome in the comment section or at my tumblr, the-souldreamer.


CHAPTER 6 TITLE
Cloth


CHAPTER 6 INITIAL NOTES
Ára reaches a problem every child faces, she needs new clothes.


CHAPTER 6
Ára looked down at the shirt in her hands, it was one of her Atto’s old shirts that he had given her. When she had first come to live with her Atto she hadn’t had any clothes except for Dudley’s hand-me-downs and whatever clothes Petunia fished out of charity bins, so when she had tripped over them for the umpteenth time Maglor had given her some of his older tunics. Ára hadn’t minded at all, she was used to hand-me-downs, but now most of them were worn out. Leaving her room and walking out to the deck, she approached Maglor, holding out the shirt as an explanation. Maglor frowned, attentive eyes scanning her from her braided head to her bare feet, taking in the fact that she was wearing one of his tunics like a pale blue dress.

“It seems you need new clothes. Very well, we will have to go into town to get you all of the proper things.”

Ára’s eyes widened, though she had lived with Maglor for just over a year and called him Atto for the last few months, she had never seen him go into town. She knew that he did, the food and books and everything else had to come from somewhere, after all.

Maglor chuckled at her look of surprise, “Yes, titta er, you will be coming with me this time. Go and find your old shoes and we will leave.” (Little one)

After Ára had hunted down her now too small shoes she and her Atto had gone to the town that populated the beach, though Maglor still lived a healthy distance from them. The town was small and homely, and most of the stores were family owned. The small clothes store that she and Maglor had stepped into was different than any she had been in before; all of those had been charity stores or tourist shops, this store was polite with practical and pretty clothes. She had enjoyed trying on things she had never had before, eventually choosing her new clothes. Walking out of the shop in a new pale green shirt and gray leggings, hand in hand with Maglor, bags on their arms, Ára couldn’t stop grinning. Looking up at her Atto, she shot him a happy and content smile, earning a small smile of her own. The rest of the day was spent in that style, walking from store to store, finding what was needed, and exploring the town.

After Ára and her Atto had gone back home and eaten, the two of them were sitting on the deck, watching the sun dip into the waves; Maglor was plucking at his harp and Ára was flipping through a book she had gotten earlier that day. After a few content moments, Maglor sat down his harp on the side table, pulling Ára’s attention to him.

“I have another gift for you, I know that it is unexpected, but I believe it is appropriate.”

Ára shifted curiously, sitting up straighter and turning to look at him. As she watched Maglor reached for a small, slim, wooden box next to his harp. As he passed the box over Ára took the moment to take in the details; the wood was dark, there was a small metal clasp on the front, and on the lid was an eight-pointed star.

Maglor cleared his throat, “These were made by my nephew, Celebrimbor, the jewel smith. I can think of no one else who would be deserving of them.”

Ára looked at him with wide eyes, he never spoke about his family, this was so very rare. Her gazed snapped back to the box as she undid the clasp and opened the lid, gasping as she saw what was inside. Laying side-by-side were two hair slides; they were mainly made of gold with flowers on the end made of bright rubies, and more rubies hanging from thin chains from the flowers.

Ára sat with wide eyes as Maglor reached across and twirled her hair into a bun, slipping in the hair slides. “Thank you, Atto. I’ll take care of them.”

Maglor gave her a small smile, “I know you will, melin er, of that I have no doubt.” (Dear one)

Ára lunged up, wrapping her arms around Maglor as she buried her head in her chest. Maglor continued to smile as he pulled his daughter into his lap, content to sit outside and hold her until she fell asleep. As he glanced down at her he couldn’t help but gently nudge the hair slides with his fingers, he truly believed that Celebrimbor would have adored his little cousin if he had ever met her, and Elrond and Elros would have been alongside him in helping them spoil their little sister. Sighing, Maglor stood up, walking back into the house to lay Ára in bed, already planning on dreaming of a brighter world.


CHAPTER 6 FINAL NOTES
Alright, the hair slides came out of nowhere, but I refuse to remove the idea.
Link to the hair slides: https://www.pinterest.com/pin/659707045418702258/
I believe now that Maglor has officially (kinda) adopted Ára he's going to slowly become more opened and relaxed around her. The talks of his past are still hard, with good reason, but he's beginning to realize that Ára's going to find out eventually.
Again, comments, prompts, and questions are appreciated.


CHAPTER 7 TITLE
Celebration


CHAPTER 7 INITIAL NOTES
Maglor thinks about how often he's been giving gifts lately.


CHAPTER 7
Maglor paused in his reading as a loose thought passed through his mind. He had given Ára a good deal of presents lately, and yet he had no idea of when her birthday was, and he doubted she knew either. He frowned as thought about how they had met, it had been midsummer, and she had been terrified, running from her own cousin. That wasn’t a time to celebrate, even if they had met then. The next day he could think of that resembled a birthday was…the day he had named her. It had been early spring when he had given her a new name, and it did sound like a better day to celebrate, they day was also fast approaching. Mind made up Maglor nodded to himself as he began to plan and turned back to the book.

------

A few days later, Maglor found himself rising with the dawn and padding into the kitchen. Quietly, and recalling what his mother had done for him and his brothers, and his father and nephew, he began to make Ára’s favorite breakfast. When Ára wandered into the kitchen herself she paused, taking in the sight of an assembled fruit and vegetables, all of them sweet and savory, next to fresh bread covered in honey. Maglor grinned to himself as Ára rushed to the table, barely sparing him a glance. She glanced over to him and dipped her head in thanks. As the day passed, Maglor and Ára spent most of the day doing things together, some of them were small and unimportant but it was calming and meaningful. Eventually, Maglor snuck off to the kitchen to begin the rest of his plan. As Ára came into the kitchen for dinner she paused for the second time today, taking in the sight of dinner and the cake on the table next to a long cream-colored box.

Maglor laughed as Ára rushed up to him and wrapped her arms around him, bouncing up and down, and causing the hair slides to jingle. “You are welcome, titta er. Now go on, help yourself.” (Little one)

Ára was quick to scarf down the food and cake before turning to the box, looking back at him. Maglor grinned again, nodding, and gesturing for her to open it. Ára’s sage green eyes widened as she opened it, taking in the small, jeweled studs laying on a piece of soft cloth. Her head turned to him, looking at him curiously.

“What’s this for, Atto?”

Maglor couldn’t wipe the grin off his face, “I was thinking about how I have given you many gifts lately, and yet you and I did not know when your birthday was. Eventually, I decided to celebrate the day I gave you your name. I hope that I did not overstep.”

Ára paused, eyes wide, absorbing his words, “You…you would do that, for me?” Her voice was incredulous, disbelieving.

Maglor nodded, going serious for a moment, “Of course, I gave you that name for a reason. You are my daughter, my youngest child, there is little I would not do for you.”

Ára ducked her head, hiding her face and teary eyes, “Hantatyë, Atto.” (Thank you)

“Of course, melin er.” (Dear one)

Ára took a minute to collect herself and Maglor busied himself cleaning up, Maglor paused as Ára reached out and gently tugged on his sleeve.

“Yes?”

She held out the box, gesturing to the studs and then her ears.

“Yes, they are for your ears. I will take you to town to get your ears pierced if you wish.”

Ára nodded, “Please.”

“Very well, tomorrow then. Tonight, however; you need sleep.” Maglor swept Ára into his arms, walking into her room. He tucked her into her bed, placing her new jewelry box onto her side table, removing her hair slides, and pressing a kiss onto her forehead. “Lóre ehtelë, mime -iel.” (Sleep well, my daughter)


CHAPTER 7 FINAL NOTES
Alright, so this one's a bit short and not as smooth, but that's because I've been focusing on other stuff lately.
I should be able to post the next chapter for "The Golden Dawn and the Adventures in Magic" out today, it'll be summarizing Ára's second year at Hogwarts and the Chamber of Secrets.
Comment, ask questions, or submit prompts below or at my tumblr, the-souldreamer.


CHAPTER 8 TITLE
Language


CHAPTER 8 INITIAL NOTES
Ára meets a snake and things start to fall into place.

Parseltongue will be in italics.


CHAPTER 8
Ára felt content as she walked along the beach, waves brushing against her bare feet. It had been a while since she had taken the time to just wander the beach, though she made sure that she could find her way back home. Usually, she would be joined by her Atto, or the other way around, but today she was by herself. As she walked, she absently looked at the seashells littering the beach, occasionally stopping to pick one up and look at it. She stopped when she heard a quiet voice, it sounded close by but small and it had a slight lisp. It wasn’t the same one Maglor had when he wasn’t really thinking, but it sounded like it was holding out its’ ‘s’s longer than usual.

Looking around, she tried to find where the voice was coming from before focusing on a small sand dune a couple feet in front of her. Walking closer to it she scanned the ground trying to figure out where the sound was coming from.

“Hello?”

“Oh, a human. You better not step on me, girl-child.”

Ára stopped and looked closer at the sand, noticing a small and smooth black snake, and crouched down. “Don’t worry, I don’t plan to step on you. I didn’t know snakes could speak though, how are you doing that?”

The snake gave a hissing laugh, “Silly girl-child, serpents can always speak, humans just can’t listen or speak back.”

Ára frowned, scrunching her nose, “Then how can I listen and speak.”

The snake sighed and slithered up onto the dune, raising itself up to look at Ára’s face. “Speakers are rare, some say that they have magic. Others say that they came from those who knew our language long ago.”

“And I’m a speaker?”



“Yes, girl-child, you are.”

Ára rocked back onto her heels, thinking. From what the snake had said, about those who “knew their language long ago,” it sounded like it could have been talking about the elves. She knew from Maglor that the elves could learn the languages of animals, but what about the magic the snake had talked about? Where did that come from? Elves had magic, but the snake sounded like it was talking about to groups of people. Could humans have magic? She knew that they did, but that was Ages ago and Maglor said that it faded with the elves, hobbits, and dwarves.

“Serpent?”

The snake paused its slithering away and whipped its head around. “What, girl-child?”

“Could…could humans have magic?”



“Of course, girl-child. What do you think you are?”

Ára sat back, shocked. How? But it made sense. How else would she look like Maglor? How else could she uses Songs of Power? How else was she talking to the snake when Maglor hadn’t taught her how to talk to anything but birds yet? It made sense, but it raised so many questions. Frowning, she turned around and hurried back to the house, she had to tell Maglor, maybe he had answers.

The snake watched as the witchling ran away and scoffed. “Rude girl-child. How could she not know she has magic? She’s practically drenched in it.” With another scoff, the snake slithered away.


CHAPTER 8 FINAL NOTES
Ára knows about magic now! She won't put everything together just yet, and probably won't until after she gets her Hogwarts letter.
For the lisp I mentioned Maglor having about, I was referring to the Fëanorian lisp. The Sindar elves were the ones who had the letter "s," the Noldor had "þ," which is like a soft "th." Maglor's lisp only comes out when he's relaxed or not really thinking about it, or when he's cursing. Ára will have the lisp in her elvish and in English when she's not disguising it.
I'm thinking about doing a side-work for how characters view and are viewed by Ára highlight the difference between her and Harry and to add some background to the characters in this AU. If this idea gets a good reception, I'll probably start the work around the same time as the main fic.
Again, comments, questions, or prompts are welcome.


CHAPTER 9 TITLE
Regret


CHAPTER 9 INITIAL NOTES
Ára learns the truth.


CHAPTER 9
Part of Ára was still in shock. She had known that there was something behind Maglor’s songs and why he was always so sad and regretful, but to learn the true reason behind it? That was shocking. Everything made sense know though; how Maglor was always so careful around her, why his hand was burned, why he was so regretful, why he didn’t look or act human, how he seemed old and young at the same time, everything made sense now. She could see why he waited to reveal it to her and tell her the truth. The only reason that he had told her know was because she Saw something in her dreams and had described what sounded like when Maglor and his brothers had sworn the Oath with their father. He had been distressed but had told her the truth.

Now, Ára sat on one of the deck chairs as Maglor waded into the ocean. She bit her lip, part of her wanted to leave Maglor alone and let him grieve the reopened wounds, and the other part wanted to go and hug him and never let go. Eventually, she decided to wait until he came back to hug him. Maglor’s face flickered through multiple emotions when he saw her sitting where he had left, a second later he stepped back.

“I…I understand if you no longer want to live with me or go by the name I gave you.” He looked so sad and resigned.

“No!” His head shot up at her shout. “You are the first to actually care for me, to actually love me. I’m not going to leave you for something that you barely had any control over, for something that you’ve spent thousands of years apologizing for.”

“But I-I committed so many sins.”

“And? Who was it that raised Elwing’s children as his own when their mother chose a rock over them? Who was it who held back the servants while Maedhros searched for the twins? Who tried to repent for the Sack of Doriath and give Elwing a chance to peacefully surrender the Silmaril? Who saw me, a scared and hurt little girl, and decided to take me in and call me his own? You have spent thousands of years trying to repent for your sins, you deserve some peace.”

Maglor looked like he was barely holding back tears, Ára wasn’t even trying anymore.

“You are my father,” her voice broke in a sob, “I am not leaving you. I’m not leaving the last of my family.”

Maglor crumpled, folding in on himself, his harp hitting the ground and his knees following a second later. Ára ran to him, curling into his arms and sobbing.

Maglor curled his hand through her hair, “I love you, melin hon, so very much.” (Dear heart)


CHAPTER 9 FINAL NOTES
Ára now knows Maglor's past and the Oath of Fëanor.
I plan to hopefully get the main fic started sometime this week, so here's to that.
Comment, question, or prompt down below or at my tumblr.


CHAPTER 10 TITLE
Half


CHAPTER 10 INITIAL NOTES
Ára has changed and that makes Maglor worry.


CHAPTER 10
Ára paused as she took notice of her reflection again, she had been doing that more often since she had noticed her new similarities to Maglor and his subsequent adoption of her. She knew that it didn’t matter much, that Maglor didn’t hate her for it, and that wasn’t a problem. The problem was, well, it was that she didn’t really match anything anymore. She didn’t look or feel more like Maglor with his ageless voice and age-old presence; but she didn’t look like anyone else either, she didn’t look like the other children with always growing and adjusting bodies. She didn’t look like an elf, because that was what Maglor was, but she didn’t look like a human anymore, but according to the Durselys she never had been. It didn’t bother her much; it was just confusing. Sighing, she turned away from the mirror and went to go curl up on the couch before she went to bed, her atto had promised her a lullaby.

----------

Maglor frowned as he looked at his daughter from where she was curled into the couch. She looked so much like him, he was overjoyed at the fact since he had long since believed that he would never have a child with his own features, but now he was concerned. She now looked as the twins once had, or at least similar enough. The twins had been sturdier than elflings and blunter, Ára looked like a Mannish child with elvish blood, the inverse of how Maglor’s stars had been before their Choice.

While her heritage was unknown to the two of them, he was sure Ára shouldn’t be able to look like that, all her blood was edain, no chance of eldar blood. Yet, he glanced at her again, there she was somehow looking like a younger version of himself despite the edain not having magic. What worried him the most, however; was how he was going to explain everything to his new daughter. How was he going to tell her that, somehow, she was now peredhel? (Half-elven)

“Atto?”

Maglor’s attention snapped back to Ára rather soft call. “Yes, melin er?” (Dear one)

“Can-can you…” She drifted off shyly, “Can you carry me to bed?”

He gave a soft smile, “Of course.” He bent and pulled her into his arms and made his way to her room, she was already back asleep when he covered her.

He sighed as he ran his fingers through her hair, she reminded him of so many things. Of the peace of his early life, the dreams of his own family, the way his stars had lifted his and Nelyo’s spirits, of the twins themselves, and of what could have been. He knew it shouldn’t be possible for this to happen, and he knew that she was still undeniably mortal, but for now this was all he needed. Letting another sigh, he pulled his daughter close to his side and curled around her; it felt like he could protect everything by holding her close. He knew that things were going to be difficult, especially with Ára now being peredhel (Half-elven), but for now he was content to hold his daughter close and sleep.


CHAPTER 10 FINAL NOTES
Hi! I know it's been a while but that's because I've been focusing on the main fic and a lot of personal problems have come up. So, thanks for your patience.
I should be able to get back on schedule or at least close to it, so here's to that.
I should also be able to upload the next chapter of "The Daughter of the Minstrel and the Order of the Phoenix" up soon, so look out for that.
Again, comments, questions, or prompts or welcome here or on my tumblr, @ the-souldreamer.


CHAPTER 11 TITLE
Of Fiery Sons and Twin Stars


CHAPTER 11 INITIAL NOTES
Some kidnap fam fluff

A request for some kidnap fam memories from katia0203.

CHAPTER 11
Maedhros sighed as he curled his fingers through Elrond’s hair, the elfling curled against his side; his twin mimicking them with Maglor on the opposite side of the bed. The eldar rarely caught a sickness, but it seemed the twins’ Mannish heritage affected that more than he had thought. The twins had stayed out in the wintery cold for too long earlier that morning and now they were suffering from that.

 

At first, he and Kano had thought that they had merely tired themselves out, but the twins had steadily gotten worse. Now, they were unnaturally hot and had fallen into a deep asleep. The healers had said that the twins would recover in a matter of days, but that hadn’t stopped Maedhros or Kano from worrying about their sons.

 

His attention shifted when Elrond did, “Do you need anything, mírë?” (Jewel)

 

“Atya?” Elrond’s voice was muddled and heavy, and his words brought a light to his fëa. (Soul)

 

“Yes, yónya?" (Son, endearing)

 

“What?”

 

“You both fell ill.” Maedhros answered, pushing Elrond’s hair away from his face, discreetly checking Elrond’s temperature.

 

Elrond blinked lazily; his eyes hazy. “Atya?”

 

Maedhros hummed.

 

“Stay?”

 

Maedhros relaxed, “Of course, yónya.” He glanced over at Maglor as his brother stared at him over Elros from where he was curled around the other twin. “We both will.”

 

The peredhel elfling smiled, curling closer to Maedhros, “Thank you, Atya, Atto.”

 

Maedhros continued to stroke Elrond’s hair and Maglor began to sing a lullaby softly and lured Elrond to sleep. He knew that this peace wouldn’t—couldn’t last, but for now he was content to listen to his brother’s soft singing and his sons breathing and forget all his troubles.


CHAPTER 11 FINAL NOTES
So, I know that usually I would write this from Maglor's POV, but I decided that Maedhros needed some love.
Also, I figured that "jewel" was a common form of endearment for children in Fëanor's house, so that's why Mae calls Elrond by that nickname.
Shoutout to katia0203 for this prompt!
This weekend is going to be EXTREMELY busy for me, so I might not be able to update for a while, sorry.
Hope you've enjoyed everything so far, and again; prompts, questions, and comments are welcome.



CHAPTER 12 TITLE
Shooting Star


CHAPTER 12 INITIAL NOTES
Maglor takes Ára stargazing


CHAPTER 12
Maglor gazed at Ára in amusement as she gazed up at the sky excitedly, she was leaning so far back that he was surprised she hadn’t fallen over yet. He had decided to take Ára stargazing tonight as a small treat and so now she was sitting on a pale blue blanket, craning her neck back as far as she could go. Maglor continued to watch his daughter as he absently plucked at his harp, and she shifted to lay on her back. He startled when she suddenly sat up with a gasp and pointed excitedly at the sky. Twisting so he could see to he smiled slightly when he saw what she was pointing at.

 

“That, melin er, is a shooting star. You best make a wish.”

 

She tilted her head slightly, confused.

 

He chuckled warmly, “It is said that if you make a wish on a star, it will come true.”

 

Ára giggled but still closed her eyes, peaking at him once, and made a wish.

 

Maglor continued to smile slightly as Ára shifted to curl into his side and pulled the blanket over herself. Even as he savored the moment and began to lull Ára to sleep with a lullaby he couldn’t help but think back to when it had been two dark haired, star-eyed elflings curled against him and Maedhros instead of a black-haired girl with sage green eyes.


CHAPTER 12 FINAL NOTES
I know it's short, but I figured it was a nice little ending.


CHAPTER 13 TITLE
Constant


CHAPTER 13 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]

CHAPTER 13
Ára wasn’t used to many things. She wasn’t used to having a bed, she wasn’t used to having food, she wasn’t used to having a home, to having a family. But this? This was pretty constant. Every morning, Maglor would leave the house and just wander the shore, she was pretty sure he knew it like the back of his hand at this point. She knew he didn’t mean to wake her, but she was used to be woken up at odd hours, so he did any way. She stared at the ceiling for a bit longer before rolling out of the bed and grabbing a ribbon to cinch Maglor’s shirt around her waist as she went. Pausing next to the bathroom mirror to attempt to fix her hair and scrub the sleep from her face she paused.

 

Maglor said that the shirt was something that he didn’t mind giving her, but she wasn’t sure how to feel about it. It was pretty, a pretty shade of a dark, almost red, pink with short sleeves (on Maglor), and fancy gold designs around the neck. The ribbon that she had grabbed as a belt match the one that she was using to pull her hair back, a really dark and soft looking purple. Once she was sure her hair was as neat as she could get it and all traces of sleep were gone from her face she headed out of the house.

 

It didn’t take long for her to find Maglor, she just followed his footprints, stepping in them along the way. She found him absently picking up and inspecting seashells, pocketing some. Stepping closer to him she cleared her throat, grabbing his attention. He blinked at her, frowning,

 

“Why are you up this early, melin er? I did not wake you, did I?”

 

She nodded, “You did, its okay, though. I wanted to walk with you.”

 

He gave a slight smile, the corner of his lip pulling up and his stature softening. “Very well, then.”

 

They settled into a routine after that, Maglor would wake up earlier than necessary to disappear onto the beach and Ára would follow him later, picking up seashells. Eventually, Ára wove the seashells into some dream catchers, one for her and one for Maglor. She still wasn’t used to many things, but she could get used to this routine of theirs. It felt nice, just her and Maglor, it was much nicer than the Dursleys had ever been.



CHAPTER 13 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 14 TITLE
Translate


CHAPTER 14 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 14
Maglor pretended not to notice when a small figure appeared next to his side while he was singing. The child was quiet, only leaning against his side and listening to him with curious eyes. As the song ended, Maglor turned towards his…new ward.

 

“What is it, melin?”

 

The girl shifted slightly, still nervous around him. “What were those words you were singing?”

 

He blinked, “Oh. That is Quenya, my born tongue. It is considered the High Language of…my people.”

 

He wasn’t sure how she would respond to discovering he was an elf; she didn’t seem ready yet.

 

The girl blinked softly, “What does it mean, though?”

 

Maglor smiled bitterly, “It is one of my more recent works, it simply describes the sea.”

 

--------

 

Maglor forgot about the conversation until a few days later, when the edain girl wandered into his study, still looking nervous. He paused his work and tried to appear less threatening to her, he honestly wanted her to trust him.

 

“Can I help you, titten er?” (Little one)

 

The girl child seemed to curl into herself again, still so nervous, before she raised her head and tried to look brave. Those few actions made Maglor seethe, wondering what monsters could have done this to such a pure and undeserving child. He remained as calm as he could, not wanting to frighten her, all children were precious after all. Taking a moment more to pull in his temper before turning his attention back to the little one.

 

“I…” She paused to take in a shuddering breath, “I want to-to learn the language that you were…singing in.” She trailed off in the end, but she got her point across.

 

Maglor felt his heart pause for a moment, before melting. This…this was so unexpected, and yet he treasured it. He had, of course, taught his twins Quenya; but that was because it was part of their heritage, no matter how distantly. And, to teach a child, unclaimed with no known heritage, with no elvish blood Quenya, that was different. To teach her Quenya, his birth tongue, a language of power, that would be one of the firsts steps to claiming the child as his own. He still had hopes to find some of her kin or perhaps a family willing to raise her as their own. Elros and Elrond had risen to be wonderful warriors, rulers, and scholars, but he didn’t want to corrupt another child as he had then. He was cursed, Doomed, he was not suited to be a father.

 

Yet, some part of him leapt at the chance of having another child to call his own, of having a daughter to go with his sons who were now long gone from this world. He bit his lip and looked back to the slip of a girl who was still curled into herself in front of his desk and made up his mind.

 

“Yes.”

 

“I-what?” She looked so confused and nervous.

 

Maglor allowed his expression to soften as he moved to kneel before her. “I said yes, titta er. I will teach you Quenya is you wish.”

 

He had many things in his thousands years long existence, and there were many moments he held dear to himself and treasured; seeing the hopeful and happy smile that crossed his new ward’s face was now one of those, and he couldn’t bring himself to regret it.


CHAPTER 14 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]



CHAPTER 15 TITLE
Storm


CHAPTER 15 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 15
Ára jolted in her bed, shooting up with a wide gaze. Sitting quietly with short breaths she waited, just as she was about to relax and curl under her covers, thunder boomed. She froze for a few more seconds before sliding out of bed, curling a plush cream blanket around her shoulders, and heading towards Maglor’s room. The storm was loud and made her nervous; it felt like, no matter how quiet she was and how loud the storm got, everything in the house was watching her. Stopping in front of Maglor’s door she bit her lip before easing into the room.

 

Squinting to see through the dark she waited until she could see shapes in the dark and walking into the room. Curling her blanket around her more she crept closer to the lump on the bed.

 

“Atto?” She kept her voice as low as possible. “Atto?”

 

Maglor groaned, stirring slightly before rolling over some and meeting Ára’s eyes through the shadows. “What iþ it, míre?”

 

She blinked at him, shuffling closer, “I-”

 

She jolted when thunder boomed, flinching, and curling into herself. Ára heard fabric shifting before Maglor picked her up and tucked her into his side, running his fingers through her hair.

 

“Hush, dear one. It’þ okay, nothing here can hurt you, I won’t let it. It iþ juþt a þtorm, it can’t hurt you.”

 

Ára poked her head out of the covers, blinking up at him with her hands fisted in his shirt. “Promise?”

 

Maglor inhaled, “I promiþe, deareþt.”

 

“Okay.” She curled against him more, “Will you sing to me, please?”

 

“Of courþe.”

 

The more Ára listened to her atto sing she began to drift off, the storm forgotten while she was safe with her father.


CHAPTER 15 FINAL NOTES
The “þ” is the letter that represents the “th” that the Ñoldor used before shifting to “s.” Fëanor took this as an insult because his mother’s name had the “þ” and so he and his family continued to use “þ” instead of “s.” Maglor uses the lisp when he isn’t paying attention or is tired, like now. Ára will sometimes use it but is much more conscious about it than her father.



CHAPTER 16 TITLE
Hug


CHAPTER 16 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 16
“Are you having fun, mírëon?” (Gemstone)

 

Ára glanced up from the tide pool she was playing in, staring up at her father. “Yes, Atto.”

 

She gasped when she felt something nudge her foot. Leaning down, she saw a small stingray run into her foot again. It was a pretty, dark black with a pale belly. Curiously, Ára reached out to gently run her hand along it. The stingray felt smooth, squishy, and slimy all at once and she giggled before pulling her hand away.

 

Maglor chuckled, “Are you well, melin er?”

 

She giggled again and nodded, grinning.

 

Maglor smiled at her softly, “Do you want to head home and eat now?”

 

Ára paused, considering, “Yes, please.”

 

Maglor scooped up the tiny girl and the two of them walked back to their house. Ára was munching on some fruit while Maglor made some bread covered in honey for them. An idea had popped into her head, usually she wouldn’t even think about it, but now it was something that she was seriously considering. Ever since Maglor had given her a new name and claimed her as his daughter the urge to hug him grew stronger and stronger. Typically, the thought of hugging someone made her the one time she had tried to do the same to Petunia. Petunia had gone to pick the girl from Mrs. Figg’s and Ára had hugged her legs like she had seen other girls do with their mothers, she had thought if she did it then Petunia would love her more. The skinny woman had allowed the hug while she said goodbye to Mrs. Figg and then grabbed her niece roughly by the wrist and dragged her back to her house; there Petunia had slapped the girl to the floor, yelling at her to never touch her again, she was too much of a freak to be her daughter.

 

Ára blinked back to the present when Maglor placed a plate in front of her. She paused for a moment before reaching out and tugging gently on Maglor’s sleeve. He turned to her with a slight frown on his face.

 

“Yes, titta er? What do you need?”

 

Gathering up her courage, Ára flung wrapped her arms around his waist and buried her head in his stomach, the reach made easier by the stool she sat on.

 

“Oh.” Maglor’s voice was quiet as he gently and carefully wrapped his arms around the girl, returning the hug. “Thank you, dearest.”

 

Ára nodded against him, pretending not to notice how choked his voice sounded. This was much better than the hug she had given to Petunia.


CHAPTER 16 FINAL NOTES
Mírëon is my own creation using mírë (jewel) and on (a short version of stone); technically it translates to jewel-stone, but I use it to mean gemstone.
Petunia is a bitch, no you cannot change my mind.


CHAPTER 17 TITLE
Stone


CHAPTER 17 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 17
Maglor glanced at the sun from where he was wading in the water, it would be time to in soon, Ára would need a snack. He glanced over at his daughter, watching as she picked up shells and stones to look over. Occasionally, she would place a stone in the bottom of her—his—tunic, holding it so it would form a pouch. Maglor felt himself smile at the sight; it was calm and innocent, reminiscent of a time where two elflings had done the same with him thousands of years ago.

 

“Having fun, anelya?” (Daughter, endearing)

 

She glanced over and nodded, giving a small, bright-eyed smile. Maglor turned back around before her felt a tug on the hem of his tunic, pulling his attention to where his daughter was nervously fidgeting. Ára pulling a small, white-pink stone and held it out to him. Maglor smiled and reached out with his unburned hand and picked up the smooth stone, tilting it from side to side and examining it.

 

“It’s lovely, melin er. Thank you.”

 

Ára grinned up at him, pleased.

 

“Come here, melin, I want to show you something.”

 

The little girl paused, piling the rocks on the sand before moving to stand next to Maglor, looking up at him expectantly.

 

Maglor grinned back and moved so they were perpendicular to the waves, taking one of Ára’s hand in his own. Picking up another rock, he had the two of them pull back the arms before flinging the rock away from themselves, watching as it skipped across the waves. Ára’s head bounced comically as the rock did, giggling as she did so. The young girl leapt up and wrapped her arms around Maglor’s legs and looking at him in pure delight.

 

He chuckled and picked her up, pressing their foreheads together. “I’m glad you liked that, mírë. Do you want to keep playing or do you want to go back home?”

 

She hummed, thinking quietly, “Back to the house, please.’

 

“Very well, mel, onwards we go.” (Love)

 

Maglor sat her back down so she could grab her rocks and seashells before they returned to the house. He paused so he could pick her up, absently pressing a kiss to her head as he did so.  


CHAPTER 17 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]



CHAPTER 18 TITLE
Flower


CHAPTER 18 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 18
“Atto. Atto. Atto.” Ára kept her voice low as she poked at Maglor from where he was hiding under his covers and blankets.

 

“No, away with you, I’m not safe for you. I always hurt people; I don’t deserve this.”

 

Ára frowned, it wasn’t like her father to fall this deep into his mind. Sometimes, Maglor fell into his own mind was plagued by regrets and bad memories that he never told her about. Sometimes, he looked at her like she was a ghost and like he couldn’t believe she was real. Occasionally, he would wake up and look around with wide frantic eyes before settling on her and pulling her close. Other times, he would look at her blankly before asking what illusions he was suffering from this time. Usually, he would snap out of it when she curled herself close to him and allowed him to focus on her and remembering where he was. Sighing, Ára wandered out of the room to give her father some space.

 

--------

 

Two days later and Maglor still hadn’t come out of his room or made any other sound besides mournful singing. Ára shifted nervously before pushing open the door and quietly moving into the room, putting down the bowl of fruit she had brought. Maglor was sitting up, blankets pooled around him, his hair was loose and tangled around him and his eyes were still distance when he glanced at her.

 

“Are you feeling any different, Atto?”

 

He blinked at her silently, not replying. Sighing, Ára turned around and headed out the door, still worried about her father but trusting he would come back soon.

 

“Why do you keep coming back?”

 

Ára paused at her father’s hoarse voice, turning back around to face him. “What do you mean, Atto? You take care of me, and I take care of you. I come back because you’re my father.”

 

Maglor blinked, frowning. “Father? But-where are the twins?” He looked panicked, eyes darting as he tried to find something. “Where are my sons?!”

 

Keeping herself quiet and approachable, Ára climbed onto the opposite side of the bed. “What year is it for you?”

 

“It’s-it’s 552 in the First Age.”

 

“Oh.” Ára wilted, “It’s been millenia since then, Atto. Don’t remember?”

 

Maglor stared at her blankly, going silent and still again. Ára smiled bleakly, “Goodnight, Atto, sleep well.”

 

Once she had closed the door, she slid down the wall next to it and buried her head in her hands. Sniffling and wiping away her tears Ára climbed to her feet and made her way down to the beach. Ára curled into a ball and just sat in the sand for a while, letting the waves brush against her feet. She didn’t want to lose her father; she had only just gotten her family and she couldn’t go back to the Dursleys.

 

All her thoughts froze in place when she felt something tucked behind her ear. Turning around she saw Maglor as he folded his hands into his lap. Raising her hand, Ára felt her fingers brush against the petals of the flower that her father had tucked behind her ear. Giving a watery smile and a relieved laugh Ára lunged and wrapped her arms around her father’s middle, crying and smiling harder when she felt his arms wrap around her.


CHAPTER 18 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]



CHAPTER 19 TITLE
Crash


CHAPTER 19 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 19
Ára shuddered as she walked further into the waves where Maglor was waiting.

 

“Are you sure you want to learn how to swim, mírë? You do not have to learn if you do not want to?”

 

She raised her head and nodded, “I’m sure. I want to this. Please.”

 

“If you say so, melda.” (Variation of dear)

 

They went slow, Maglor showing her how to kick and paddle and then moving away ever so slightly so Ára could swim over to him.

 

“Atto?”

 

“Yes, anelya?”

 

“Why do you not like the ocean sometimes?”

 

Maglor paused from where he was supporting her head as she floated on her back. “I—I do not trust the sea vary much because of Ulmo.”

 

“The sea god?”

 

He hummed, “In a way, yes. When my brothers…my brothers and I swore the Oath with our father, he renounced the Valar. It has been Ages since any Valar have walked Arda, though I still worry. They may want to take me back to the Undying Lands for punishment, but I am undeserving of going back, and….and I do not want to abandon you.”

 

Ára sighed and moved so she could wrap herself around her father’s torso and laid her head on his heart. “Don’t worry, Atto, if they haven’t come here in Ages then they probably won’t come any time soon.”

 

Maglor nodded sadly before he turned around to head back to the house, wading through the waves.

 

Later, Ára sat in front of the waves, letting them lap at her feet. Maglor was still in the house, sleeping after not having done so for a few days. After a few more moments of silence, she pulled her harp into her lap and began to play a Ñoldor lullaby.

 

As the notes drained away, she felt something watching her from the waves. “Who’s there?”

 

The only answer she got was the sound of the waves splashing against the sand.

 

Turning back to the sea, Ára spoke. “I don’t know if you can hear me, and I don’t know if you know who I am, but I have something to tell you. Don’t take Maglor away, he’s trying to make up for all his wrongs, he’s been trying for Ages, he doesn't need to go Valinor to be imprisoned.”

 

Once again, the only sound was the waves crashing against each other, though the feeling of something watching her had gone. Waiting for a few more minutes she nodded to the waves and dipped into a polite bow before heading back home. She didn’t know if it worked, but she hoped that it had, and that her father would be forgiven and be allowed to go home soon.


CHAPTER 19 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]



CHAPTER 20 TITLE
Seagull


CHAPTER 20 INITIAL NOTES
The story mentioned in chapter 13 “The Shipwright and the Grimm”


CHAPTER 20
Today was a good day, especially to Ára; she and Maglor had decided to spend the day on a different part of the beach than usual. It had taken some pleading from her in order to convince Maglor to take her out this way, but he eventually caved. So, the two of them had packed up some towels, food, their harps, and a light blanket for Ára to practice to embroidery on and headed down to a different part of the beach. This part wasn’t really that different, but it did have more wild animals; there were fish, some tidepools, and some seagulls a couple of yards away.

 

After playing in the waves and the tidepools for a few hours, Ára had climbed back to where Maglor had been sitting on a towel to eat. Sighing lightly, Ára finished her sandwich and took a swig of water before flopping back onto the towel.

 

She must have fallen asleep since when she woke up, it was to her father muttering crossly at something.

 

Ára muffled a yawn, pushing a towel off her as she sat up. “Atto? Wha’s goin’ on?”

 

Her father looked sheepish as he turned around, part of cloak clutched in his hand. “It’þ nothing for you to worry about. Go back to þleep.”

 

She blinked at him again, rubbing her face and shoving her hair away from her eyes before she took a closer look at him. Then, she collapsed into a pile of giggles.

 

As Ára laughed at him, Maglor shifted embarrassedly, tugging on the edge of his cloak when the seagull on the other end tried to fly off with it. “Mírë, please.”

 

Stifling her laugher into badly concealed giggles, Ára sat back up to look at her father again. “Do you want some help, Atto?”

 

He glared lightly at her, still tugging on the edge of his cloak. “Could you pull out some bread? It may convince the feathered menace,” here he tugged on his cloak harder, “to let go.”

 

As if it understood what he had said, the seagull pulled back and flapped its wings harder, only stopping when Ára reached into the bag and pulled out a small slice of bread.

 

“Here, birdy, come here. Let go of Atto’s cloak please.”

 

As she crept closed the seagull cocked its head before releasing her father’s cloak and diving at her…and heading right for Maglor’s harp.

 

As Maglor let out another dismayed sound, Ára collapsed back onto the sand in more laughter, laughing harder when she looked over to see the seagull trying to bite down on the harp and fly off with it.

 

“No. Get off. Go.” The seagull refused to listen and continue to try to bite and pick up the harp, causing Maglor to get more and more frustrated. “Enough you feathered thief, either releaþe my harp or I will throw you into the þea!”

 

Eventually, the seagull stopped in order to look into Maglor’s eyes, causing Ára to stop her laughter to watch what would happen next. She wasn’t disappointed.

 

The seagull honked in Maglor’s face before snatching up his sandwich and flying off.

 

As her father stood there in shock, Ára broke out into a new round of laughter before Maglor switched to Quenya and beginning to let out some of the filthiest curses he would think of.

 

Still giggling, Ára sat up on her knees to look at her father and get his attention. “We should come here more often.”

 

Maglor gave her one of the most disbelieving looks she had ever gotten from him. She managed to keep her face still for a few seconds before breaking off into laughter again as her father sighed and glared in the direction of where the seagull was.

 

 

This story was inspired by this: link.


CHAPTER 20 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]

CHAPTER 21 TITLE
Moon


CHAPTER 21 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 21
“The wolf will lead from child asleep

 The wolf will run 'til rising sun

 The wolf will guide you in your dreams, run free

 

 Wolf, wolf, howls the wolf

 Wolf, wolf, run free

 Wolf, wolf, howls the wolf

 Wolf, wolf, run free.”

 

“That’s lovely, yenya. Where did you learn that?” (My daughter)

 

Ára turned to her father and smiled as he stood next to her on the porch, joining her in staring out at the moon. Shifting her harp in her grasp, she replied.

 

“I…made it…myself.” She ducked her head, embarrassed, as a blush appeared on her cheeks. “I read a story in the town library about how a group of people were once gifted with the ability for their soul to turn into a wolf while they slept, allowing them to run free in ways their human bodies couldn’t. I—the song—it just felt right to sing it, so I—Atto? What’s wrong.”

 

Maglor seemed to be smiling with bright eyes that were suspiciously wet.

 

“Nothing, meldaminë,” he gave a small sniff as he wiped at his eyes, “nothing at all.” (Dear one)

 

Ára frowned as she put her harp down and moved to stand in front of him, raising her arms to indicate she wanted up; Maglor obliged, and she pressed her forehead to his for a heartbeat before wrapping her arms around his neck in a hug.

 

“Why are you crying, then?”

 

Maglor cleared his throat, “I am crying because I am proud of you and what you have done. You may not have chosen my Craft as your own, but you still participate in it and that warms my heart.”

 

“Oh.” Ára blinked fidgeting with her shirt-dress shyly. “I’m glad it makes you happy.”

 

Her father pulled her closer and into another hug, “More than you know, more than you know.”

 

The two stayed like that for a while, wrapped in a hug, before Ára yawned sleepily.

 

“Atto?”

 

“Yes?”

 

“Can we stay out here for a little bit and watch the moon?”

 

“Of course.”


CHAPTER 21 FINAL NOTES
The song Ára sings and the story she mentions reading are from the movie “Wolfwalkers”


CHAPTER 22 TITLE
Sunshine


CHAPTER 22 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 22
“Mírëon, have you seen the—oh.” (Gemstone)

 

Maglor blinked, taking in the sight in front of him. His daughter was spread on a thick rug in her room and lying in the sun coming in from the window, from what he could tell she was fast asleep in the sunlight and oblivious to the world around her.

 

Muffling a smile, Maglor knelt next to Ára and brushed the hair away from her face from where it laid smooshed against the floor. “Lávar, wake up.” (Blossom, golden)

 

She blinked up at him groggily, still not aware yet, and hummed.

 

“If you keep sleeping here you won’t be able to sleep at night.”

 

“But it’s warm.”

 

Maglor laughed at Ára’s sleepy answer even as she dropped back into a light doze and tucked her face into her chest as he picked her up.

 

“We can go and eat out in the sun if you prefer, you can still be in the sun and you stay awake.”

 

“M’kay.”

 

He laughed as the two of them made her way onto the deck.


CHAPTER 22 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 23 TITLE
Vision


CHAPTER 23 INITIAL NOTES
1 year ago today I posted the first work in this series, "The Father of Stars and the Girl from Under the Stairs"

I never anticipated that the series, especially the main fic "The Daughter of the Minstrel and the Order of the Phoenix," would take off so much or that so many people would enjoy.

It's been a pleasure to write this and I'm very happy that so many people have enjoyed the series, the crossover, and how I wrote the characters.


CHAPTER 23
Ára laughed cheerfully as Huan loped past them with Aredhel perched atop his back and Tyelko chasing after the two of them, yelling at his traitorous hound and thief of a cousin.

 

Aredhel was cheered on by her brothers and son, Tyelpë and Lómion on the opposite side of Ára. The three of them painted a rather comely picture together; three cousins of the same generation reunited despite the sins of their forefathers, quite literally in their circumstances.

 

Maglor’s immediate family was to his left in their own groups. Curufin and their father were debating heavily over some linguistic drift that had affected a smithing project of some kind with their mother speaking up and keeping them on track. Maedhros had his head bent together with Ambarussa and Findekáno, likely plotting some mischief if the looks thrown at Turukáno and his tied-together boots were any indication. Moryo sat under a shade for his sensitive skin, his birthmark standing out even more due to the sun he had been under, calmly weaving a beach blanket of green, blue, grey, and white.

 

“Are you happy, Atto?”

 

Maglor looked up and smiled at Elrond, feeling his heart warm as he met the gaze of his older son. “I am, yónya, I am so happy. I never dared to hope that we could share this happiness.” He paused, glancing around once more. “Where are your sons?”

 

Elrond sighed, sounding much like Nerdanel when she had tried to wrangle her own sons. “Most likely causing more mischief with Thranduilion now that he is visiting.”

 

“Is that why I saw Laurefindil, Ecthelion, and Erestor covered in mud and rushing off into the forest?”

 

Elrond turned to face Turgon, who was now peering around Elenwë, Idril, and Tuor. “Aye, your twice-great grandsons likely disappeared on a hunt to starve off the vengeance that the lords will enact upon them.”

 

Turgon sighed, shaking his head, “Ai, they have inherited Irissë’s penchant for mischief then.” He rose to his full height, automatically bending to help his wife up, only to stumble and fall over his tethered together feet. “What—?”



Findekáno and Ambarussa started to cackle as Maedhros ducked his head to hide his chuckle. Turgon spluttered as he glared at his brother and cousins.

 

“Ambarussa! Findekáno!”

 

“What did I miss, Atto?”

 

Maglor lifted his head to meet Ára’s gaze and blinked. She was older, her hair slightly longer (noticeable even when pulled back), and wearing a smithing apron that she had likely stolen from one of her favorite cousins.

 

“Where did you disappear to, dearest?”

 

She grinned, tucking a loose strand of hair behind her ear as the wind blew it forward. “To check on Eönwë’s gift in the forge, nothing too exciting. So, what did uncles Ambarussa do this time?”

 

“They decided that Turuk

 

 

Maglor blinked his eyes open. He was still in his house on the beach. Lauriëára was back from Hogwarts for the holidays, curled up next to him. His family was still in Valinor or the Halls. He swallowed back a tearful sob. It had been a nice vision, but it had only been that. He would never be allowed back to Valinor unless it was in chains, his father and brothers were still lost to the darkness, Elrond did not consider himself his son and his own twins would not call him grandfather, and Ára would eventually pass as all mortals did, regardless of how long wizards lived.

 

He rolled over onto his side and pressed his head into his pillow and wished, not for the first time, that his vision was something attainable.


CHAPTER 23 FINAL NOTES
Thank you everyone!