TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
A king of his own body	leodesic	2024-03-05	2024-03-05	6,732	1/1	12	87	14	415

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Teen And Up Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Fingon & Maedhros (Tolkien), Fingon | Findekáno & Maglor | Makalaurë, Fingolfin & Fingon (Tolkien), Fëanor & Fingon (Tolkien), Fingon | Findekáno & Finwë	Fingon (Tolkien), Maedhros (Tolkien), Maglor (Tolkien), Fëanor (Tolkien), Fingolfin (Tolkien), Nerdanel (Tolkien), Finwë (Tolkien)	Trans Fingon (Tolkien), Trans Male Character, Coming Out, Family, Transitioning, Valinor (Tolkien), Years of the Trees, Nicknames, trans author, Trans Character, implied Fingon/Maedhros if you squint, Accidental Trans Ally Feanor, with emphasis on accidental, Acceptance, Fluff, deadnames, Quenya, Quenya Names, Gender Dysphoria, gender euphoria

SUMMARY
After years of internal agony, he confessed one of these problems to his favourite cousins, who laughed at him.

“Wanting to look nice does not mean you are a nís, Finno,” Maitimo told him. “It just means you’re vain. Look at Makalaurë, he can’t go five minutes without fishing for a compliment.”

Fingon, currently Finno, has finally figured out he is a man. This story follows his process as he accepts himself, slowly expands the circle of people who know, and finally takes the leap and takes command of his own destiny.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
A king of his own body


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
So, first thing to know: I'm trans! My experience may differ from your experience, so if I've accidentally been offensive to your experience, you can be 100% sure it's accidental.

In terms of content warnings, no one is intentionally transphobic in this fic. However, Fingon absolutely has some internalized transphobia and characters who do not know he is trans do misgender him quite aggressively. They're not doing this out of spite, they literally do not have the information to act differently.

Characters throughout use Quenya names. The most confusing set to remember is Fingon - Finno - Findekano - Finderiel (deadname, an attempt to take "Finde" and the "-riel" suffix indicating "garlanded maiden" as one name).


CHAPTER 1
The thing was, he did like being pretty.

Well, not pretty, exactly. Handsome was not quite the right word, either. But he liked to look good, to be looked at with desire, and to feel elegant and graceful. There were times he craved long flowing fabrics and delicate jewellery. There were times he wanted to ride with huntresses and women with their bows and their spears and their high voices singing. But then he looked at his shoulders, small and rounded, and his chest and the breasts that hung there, and he shuddered.

After years of internal agony, he confessed one of these problems to his favourite cousins, who laughed at him.

“Wanting to look nice does not mean you are a nís, Finno,” Maitimo told him. “It just means you’re vain. Look at Makalaurë, he can’t go five minutes without fishing for a compliment.”

Any irritation he had felt at the laughter vanished at the nickname. Maitimo had started calling him that the first time he had confessed to feeling like a nér, and neither he nor Makalaurë had called him anything since save when others may overhear them. It put him in a good enough mood to consider Maitimo’s words, ignoring the way Makalaurë squawked and protested and insisted haughtily that the accusations levelled against him were base and untrue.

“You took three hours to do your hair this morning, Makalaurë,” Maitimo countered.

That comment set off another round of bickering, and it was not long before the three of them were wrestling in the grass. But in the coming weeks, he looked at himself in the mirror, considering. He did look good when he bound his chest, he decided, better than he looked when he dressed as nís. Maitimo may be onto something. Maybe he didn’t want to look pretty. Maybe he wanted to look good and be complimented. If those were different things, as Maitimo suggested, he could have the best of both worlds.

*

“You know, everyone complains about the cramps, but no one says anything about the headaches,” he said glumly, slumped against the table with his forehead resting against his arms. “Or the – everything. Everything, Maitimo.”

Maitimo snorted and handed him a cup of fortified wine. “I still don’t understand why pissing blood would make your head ache.”

He lifted his head enough to squint at his friend. “It’s not piss. You can’t control it. It just kind of happens.”

The blatant horror that twisted Maitimo’s face did not make bleeding any better, but it did at least ensure his suffering was shared.

*

What had started as a friendly argument with Makalaurë over the last almond cake had devolved into senseless wrestling. They bickered and insulted each other as they tussled. Maitimo, instead of interfering, leaned against the counter and watched them while eating the cake himself. None of them noticed Fëanáro enter, so no one thought twice when Makalaurë wailed,

“Ai, Finno, my elbow! You brute!”

“Makalaurë!” Fëanáro scolded. The three of them quailed under the intensity of his glare. “That is no way to speak to a guest! It is not Finderiel’s fault you lost.”

“Finno.”

He did not know where the courage came from. Picking a fight with Makalaurë was one thing, but arguing with Fëanáro was another entirely. But he stepped forward, squared his shoulders and tilted his chin up, glaring a challenge at his uncle. He ignored Maitimo and Makalaurë staring at him in shock, focusing instead on the baffled look on Fëanáro’s face. Confusion, he told himself, was good. It gave him another chance to make his point before he inevitably exploded with rage.

“I prefer Finno.”

Fëanáro crossed his arms over his chest and shifted his weight to one foot, eyeing him with a thoughtful expression.

“You prefer the masculine suffix,” he said. Finno nodded. He watched as Fëanáro's face moved through a series of expressions ranging from baffled to thoughtful to finally accepting, at which point he shrugged. “Carry on, then.”

When Fëanáro left, the three of them breathed a sigh of relief. As soon as they felt sure he was safely out of earshot, both Maitimo and Finno rounded on Makalaurë, blaming him for the confrontation and tackling him once more.

It was not until several weeks had passed that Finno realized Fëanáro had not referred to him with a single feminine term since. It was not just ‘Finno’. Having confirmed that he preferred a single masculine term, Fëanáro had correctly inferred he was a nér and not a nís. Knowing his uncle, it was more likely to be linguistic rigidity than actual empathy, but Finno appreciated it nonetheless.

Now that he knew his uncle was safe to visit, he found himself spending even more time with Maitimo and Makalaurë. He visited them at every opportunity, stealing out of his father’s house at dawn and returning only when he had no choice. Their house was the one place he felt he could breathe. A weight lifted from his shoulders and he laughed louder and spoke with more surety than ever before, secure in the knowledge that here, at least, he was welcome as himself.

He spent so much time there that his father sat him down to ask why he spent so much time at Fëanáro's house and not his own. Finno shrugged, citing the company of his cousins and claiming he practised the harp with Makalaurë.

Ñolofinwë did not buy his story. The suspicion sat heavy on Finno’s shoulders, so he spent ever more time at Fëanáro's house, spending the night where he could. Most often he crept into Maitimo’s room, but when his aunt and uncle knew he was staying they insisted he take the guest room instead. When his father realized how many nights he was spending away from the house he tried to talk about what was proper for a young nís of his age, but he simpered and batted his eyelashes and assured him that Lady Nerdanel would never let anything untoward happen.

He apologized to Lady Nerdanel next time he saw her, explaining what he had done. Instead of laughing (as he had hoped) or shouting (as he had feared) she sat him down for a cup of tea and asked him why he did not tell his father the truth (which was much, much worse).

“He cannot even accept me as he thinks I am,” Finno said bitterly. “He looks at me and sees something delicate, something breakable. He buys me all the finest dresses and dainty jewellery and rubbish! And every time he sees me wrestling he looks like he’s going to weep, and ai! If I get so much as a single bruise! You would not believe the fuss!”

“It is a parent’s prerogative to fuss over their child,” Nerdanel told him, but said nothing more.

Two weeks later, Fëanáro cornered him and shoved a small box into his hands, refusing to make eye contact the entire time. “I had wondered why you always dressed so shamefully. I am not surprised it is your father’s fault.”

He left as Finno gaped at him, scrambling to make sense of the unprovoked insult. He retreated from the house to a nearby garden and sat with his back against a tree. He tried to take a deep breath. The cloth he used to bind his chest cut tight against his skin as he inhaled, limiting how much air he could pull in with each breath. It took him longer than he liked to admit to order his thoughts enough to open the box.

A dazzling array of masculine jewellery filled the box to the brim. A swell of emotion filled him and he closed the lid of the box, choking down a sudden sob tangled with a laugh. Jewellery meant everything to the Noldor. It was how they signalled everything from gender to profession to whatever mood they were in that day. And while borrowing clothes from his cousins and sleeping in Maitimo’s bed was one thing, borrowing their jewellery was unthinkable.

He opened the lid again. Some of the contents he recognized as donated from Maitimo or Makalaurë's collections, but much was plainly Fëanáro's work. He had made him several complete matching sets, in the styles Finno had often admired on Fëanáro's sons but in the colours Finno preferred to wear and marking his lineage appropriately. True, the craftsmanship of his jewels plainly marked him as Ñolofinwion oddly favoured by Fëanáro, but in that moment, that brought nothing but a warm glow to his chest. Even if the gift had been delivered with an insult to both him and his father, Fëanáro's actions spoke louder than his words did. The contents of this box were enough for Finno to walk around in public as a prince of the Noldor. He could scarcely imagine a greater gift.

Despite having no mirror to guide him, he put on as much of the jewellery as he possibly could. When he returned to Fëanáro’s house, he found the entire family there waiting for him. The family greeted him with a cheer and raucous affection. Maitimo called him handsome, and Makalaurë said bold, and Nerdanel said he looked like a fine young prince. Fëanáro said only that he would no longer embarrass his grandfather if seen in public, which coming from Fëanáro was a grand compliment indeed, though Nerdanel scolded him for it. Fëanáro sighed.

“We can tell Atar though, surely? Otherwise the rest of the plan will be difficult.”

Finno did not know what the rest of the plan was, but if it was anything like what he had seen so far, he could not wait to find out.

*

“Oh, Valar, we’re going to die,” Maitimo whimpered.

Both Finno and Makalaurë looked at him like he had gone mad. When they had heard that Fëanáro had arranged for sword lessons for Finwë’s grandson’s, they had been delighted that Finno was included in that number and spent many long hours speculating over the identity of their tutor. Their greatest fear was that it would be Fëanáro himself, for he was both fierce in battle and not a gentle teacher.

Finwë, on the other hand, was gentle. He was so gentle Finno could barely imagine him holding a sword, let alone using one. He greeted his grandsons calmly, hesitating only a moment before the name ‘Finno’ and smiling when he saw Finno’s entire face light up with joy at the acknowledgement.

“I saw him spar with Atar once,” Maitimo said as they jogged around Tirion on Finwë's order. “I knew we only play at fighting, but I did not know how gentle our play was until I saw grandfather fight.”

Finno considered what he had seen of Fëanáro with a sword and tried to apply the terms ‘play’ or ‘gentle’ to them. If Finwë was capable of worse, then they were indeed in trouble. But they spent most of their first lesson on footwork drills and did not so much as touch a sword. At the end of the lesson, Finwë called for Finno to stay back and walk with him a while.

“Forgive me if I speak imprecisely,” he started, and Finno took a moment to appreciate the irony of the king opening with an apology, “but I am told you are my grandson and not my granddaughter?”

He had never said it aloud to Fëanáro and Nerdanel, not in so many words, but he nodded. Finwë nodded a little, his expression thoughtful.

“And you have not told your father?”

Fear bolted through Finno. “Please, don’t tell him!”

Finwë held up his hands in a gesture of surrender. “It is your decision, child, not mine. But it would grieve Ñolofinwë to know you hid such a thing from him, and I think it must pain you to pretend to be what you are not.”

“It does,” Finno admitted, avoiding his grandfather’s eyes. “But I cannot tell him. We can barely even speak without arguing these days.”

“Perhaps that has more to do with the amount of time you spend at Fëanáro’s house and less to do with you,” Finwë suggested gently. “You know how they are with one another.”

Finno considered that. After all his uncle had done for him lately, he was hesitant to lay blame at his feet. The alternative interpretation, that it was his father being irrational, he liked no more. But as displeasing as both options were, it seemed likely Finwë was right.

“But that is not why I asked you to stay. You are not a nís, but unless more had changed than my eyes can see, you may tire more quickly than your cousins when we begin with our swordwork. You must build your upper body strength deliberately if your body will not do it for you.”

“It just happens for neri, doesn’t it?” Finno asked bitterly. “Maitimo just has to look at a sword and he gets bigger shoulders.”

“You are a nér, and it does not happen so for you. But each of us is king of his own body and governs it as he will. You have always had a strong will, Finno. I have no doubt you will find a solution.”

At that, Finno looked up at his grandfather shyly and saw the pride and love in his face. He hugged him, hiding his face to hide his embarrassment, and mumbled out a quiet thanks.

*

With his grandfather’s encouragement, Finno developed a routine to develop his upper body into that of a nér. Finwë, kind and kingly as he was, did not put it so, instead focusing on the things Finno would be able to do with his new strength, but Finno knew better. The work was hard and gruelling, especially with the way he bound his chest, but the pain was worth it. Each day, his shoulders grew and his biceps swelled. What did it matter if his muscled ached day and night? What did it matter if his chest bindings left deep marks on his skin that hurt to touch? More and more, he looked like himself.

*

Hiding his sword lessons from his father grew harder and harder.

At first, it was simply a matter of excuses for his absence. Then the callouses came as the leather grips of his training sword stripped the sensitive skin from the base of his fingers. Maitimo helped him bandage each and every callous, but the excuses he had to make himself. He fell back on cooking and baking most often. His father was baffled by the sudden spate of burns he claimed to have because he had never been so clumsy (nor so interested in cooking) before. But Ñolofinwë himself never set foot in the kitchens, so he could not question Finno’s lies.

The bruises came next. Makalaurë cracked one of his fingernails with a sharp blow in sparring. The pain was unpleasant, but worse was the fear that he would not be able to hide this injury from his father. Thankfully, the weather was going through a cooler phase to allow the fields to rest and the elves to experiment with cold-weather fashion. Finno wore gloves around his father and bragged about the injury at his cousin’s house. It was by far the most impressive mark any of them had gained so far.

As his skills grew, his shoulders grew larger and stronger. His confidence in himself grew. The more he trained, the more Finno loved the sword for the freedom it bought him. Yes, his muscles ached and his hands were covered in callouses, but his body was strong and he could stand for himself. He did not think he would ever be able to thank his grandfather enough for what the lessons had brought him.

*

As he grew to look more and more like himself, he took to showing off around his cousins more and more. Seeing how delighted he was by the change, Makalaurë took him aside and said,

“I know you use our music sessions as an excuse for your parents. Let us put those sessions to good use!”

Finno pulled faces at Maitimo as Makalaurë pulled him up to his room, but despite his theatrics did not actually complain about following. They took out their harps and began to play. It would be a singing-game, and a speaking-game, Makalaurë explained, to stretch the range of Finno’s voice. With practice, he could learn to lower the pitch of his voice. He jumped at the challenge immediately. And if a part of him hated that Makalaurë could go a whole octave deeper than him, he took comfort in the knowledge his cousin could also sing a full octave higher.

With Makalaurë’s help, he developed exercises to adjust his normal speaking tone. The only risk, he thought, was in remembering to keep his voice high and girlish when around those who still thought he was a nís.

*

Most festivals were for all the Noldor, but some were for neri or nissi only. When the festivals for nissi came around, Finno began to make excuses, claiming he was ill, or injured, or had been unable to make it back from his camping trip in time despite trying ever so hard. But when the festivals for neri came around, he ached. He did not miss being a nís, but he did miss the community that had come with it.

After several years of this, Maitimo put his foot down. They could not risk smuggling Finno into the actual festival in case he was recognized, but they could at least share a little of what he was missing. He and Makalaurë told him the details of the festivals that nissi were not permitted to know. Together they practised the dances and the songs that only neri knew and laughing in the light of the Trees.

On the night one such festival, Fëanáro caught Maitimo trying to steal some food for Finno to try, and the next thing Finno knew, his schedule was filled with cultural lessons to be taken with his grandfather.

“Maitimo means well, but such matters are not to be taken lightly,” Fëanáro told him. “If your father notices, tell him you have taken an interest in politics.”

If your father notices, Finno thought, and barely managed to avoid laughing. Between these lessons and his sword fighting lessons (which were, as Maitimo had predicted, terrifying), Finno felt as though he spent half his life trailing after Finwë. Ñolofinwë was plainly both baffled and thrilled.

“I used to worry, when I was young, that Atar only ever had time for Fëanáro,” Ñolofinwë said. “When you started to do the same, I feared for you, Finderiel. I am glad to see you are now spending time with Atar. He is right to take pride in his only granddaughter.”

Finno all but fled from the room.

*

It was supposed to be a celebration of special magnificence.

There was not a single Noldo who would not be in attendance, to say nothing of the many Teleri and Vanyar who had also been invited. Many of the Valar had indicated they would also attend. The Noldor thought that this was just, for the celebration marked three hundred years since Finwë had first beheld the light of the trees.

In retrospect, it was inevitable that Fëanáro and Ñolofinwë took the celebration as a competition. Months before the celebration started, rumours had already begun to swirl that Fëanáro would bedeck his entire family in jewels more radiant than even he had made before. Maitimo complained endlessly of the hours spent at the tailor, but Finno thought he had the better end of it.

Unlike Maitimo and Makalaurë, who left the tailor with fine robes that fit their bodies and made them strut around boldly, Finno left with a dress. The skirt was a riot of red and orange that, when he twirled, fanned out to recreate the centre of his grandfather’s heraldry. It was edged with gold embroidery and cut, Finno noticed, to cover his bulky shoulders but show off the trimness of his waist. The dress came with a full set of jewellery from slender golden rings set with jewels to fine chains to hang in his hair like a loose, flowing circlet.

“Fëanáro may parade his sons about as he pleases, but it will do him no good,” Ñolofinwë said smugly. “Atar has but one granddaughter, and well does he know it from how he dotes on you.”

For the first time, Finno felt a sour squirm of discomfort at the realization Finwë had turned his attention on him only at Fëanáro's request. Then the term ‘granddaughter’ sank into his mind and the discomfort turned to rage. He found himself biting his tongue, tempted to hurl the same thought that had hurt him at his father as an insult.

When the night of the celebration came, Ñolofinwë himself insisted on braiding Finno’s hair himself.

“I used to do this every day when you were small,” he sighed wistfully, twisting it into patterns that declared Finno was a princess and the daughter of Ñolofinwë. Finno’s nausea grew as each braid was pinned into place. He had not worn this style for years. “I know things have been difficult of late, Finderiel. I do not know why, but I do hope you know I love you. You will always be my little princess, Finderiel, no matter what.”

Finno stared at himself in the mirror. A miserable nís stared back, her shoulders hunched, brow furrowed, every line in her face written in misery. Something in him snapped. A muscle worked in his jaw and he squared his shoulders, and in the mirror he could see a new fire burned in his eyes. Grandfather Finwë had been right. He was a king in command of his own body, and he would let no other decide what he did with it. Without a word he got to his feet and stormed out. When he heard his father call for him, his stomping turned to running as he fled as fast as he could.

His cousins and their parents had left for the festival by the time Finno reached Fëanáro’s house, but he let himself in regardless. Once inside, however, he did not know what to do with himself and sat down at the table in the dining room, pulled his knees up to his chest and wept. Even if he had been a nís, he would not have been the delicate little princess his father wanted, so what hope was there for him?

To his surprise, the family returned long before the celebrations were due to end.

“Who… oh, Valar,” Nerdanel said faintly when she saw him, and Finno did not know if it was better or worse that she had not even recognized him like this.

Fëanáro sighed. “Well, no one will mistake you for one of mine, but we will figure something out. You can stay in Maitimo’s room tonight. Makalaurë, see if you have any clothes that fit him.” He cast a judgemental eye over Finno and shuddered. “And do something about that hair.”

As he led the way up the stairs, Maitimo explained, “Your father asked me if I’d seen you.”

“Yes, brother, and what did you say?” Makalaurë asked. A coil of dread settled in Finno’s stomach at the mocking tone in Makalaurë’s voice and the way Maitimo cringed.

“I forgot Finderiel was supposed to be you.”

“After spending an hour lecturing us on the way how it’s meant to be a secret, he’s the one that blows it.”

“Finderiel is a nís’ name!” Maitimo whined. “You’re not a nís!”

As inconvenient as the situation was, he could not help but feel a rush of affection for Maitimo at that. The absolute certainty in his voice in spite of Finno’s dress and hair was grounding.

Once in Makalaurë’s room, he was immediately given Makalaurë’s least favourite set of robes (“Yellow looks terrible on me, I don’t know what I was thinking!”) and sent to change. He stripped quickly. The dress his father had bought for a horrific price he tossed carelessly on the floor so he could pull on his cousin’s rejected clothes. It was not until he looked down at his own torso that his mood fell. He had been unable to bind his chest with the dress he had fled in and the robes did not fit as well as he wanted.

Sticking his head out the door, he explained the situation to his cousins. Though they did not have the proper materials, Maitimo had a scarf he was willing to sacrifice for Finno’s needs, and with that scarf and some clever knifework he was able to fashion a passable binder. It was not as effective nor as comfortable as his usual gear, but it was better than having breasts.

“We will buy whatever you need at the market tomorrow,” Maitimo promised him.

He then sat on the edge of Makalaurë’s bed with Maitimo behind him, carefully undoing the delicate braids his father had so lovingly pinned into place. It ought to have grieved him to lose such a reminder of his father’s love. Instead, it was all he could do not to tear at his hair himself, even if doing so risked tearing the hair at the root and leaving his scalp bare. Once his hair was all unbraided, Maitimo tended to it with his own hair oils before he began the long process of braiding it again, this time in the style that would mark Finno as the nér he was.

Makalaurë went through his wardrobe as Maitimo worked, throwing clothes at the bed whenever he found anything that no longer suited him or that he thought would look better on Finno. The pile grew swiftly. Maitimo teased him as he worked, asking if the size of the pile was indicative of Finno’s good looks, Makalaurë's generosity, or the excessive size of Makalaurë’s wardrobe.

All three of them tensed when they heard a door slam downstairs. A few moments later, they heard Fëanáro shout,

“You accuse me of insulting him? I am not the one trying to dress him up like some kind of doll!”

“Well, Atar’s arrived,” Finno said weakly. They did not hear Ñolofinwë’s response, but they did hear Fëanáro's retort:

“Are you blind as well as dumb? You have a son, though not for long with the way you are acting.”

“Enough!” Ñolofinwë snapped, loud enough that his voice carried up the stairs. “I will not stand here and let you insult Finderiel because you are jealous of how Atar dotes on her.”

There was a pause. Fëanáro's sons flinched. A moment later, Fëanáro roared at as-yet-unheard volume:

“You think this is about Atar? Atar is the one teaching him how to be a nér because you cannot be trusted to do so!”

Quiet fell after that. The three in Makalaurë’s room exchanged looks and agreed the quiet was almost more dreadful than the shouting. At least when their fathers were shouting, they knew what was happening. Nothing good had ever come from Fëanáro and Ñolofinwë speaking quietly together.

Only half of Finno’s hair was braided when a knock came at Makalaurë’s door.

“Who is it?” Makalaurë called, suspicious.

“Ñolofinwë.”

Both of Fëanáro's sons looked to Finno for guidance. Maitimo abandoned his hair and took his hand, saying,

“You do not have to see him if you do not wish to. If you do wish to see him, you do not have to do so alone; and if you do see him alone, we will be within shouting distance if you need us.”

Finno swallowed heavily. He stared at the door, terrified of what lay on the other side but knowing he could not avoid it forever. “No. I’ll see him alone.”

“You may come in,” Makalaurë called back.

He and Maitimo left then, both of them glaring at Ñolofinwë on the way out. Ñolofinwë was plainly baffled by their behaviour. For all Fëanáro fought with him at every opportunity, Maitimo (and, usually, Makalaurë) had never been anything but polite and friendly. To be greeted by a pair of glares threatening no less violence than their father had promised would be outside his experience. But then his eyes turned to Finno and he let out a wounded sound. Finno’s eyes narrowed.

“Your dress is on the floor,” he said, tilting his head towards where he had left it in a crumpled heap. “You had best take it if you do not want Makalaurë trying to salvage it for himself.”

Ñolofinwë crossed the room and sat hesitantly on the bed beside him. “I did not come here for the dress.”

“There is no daughter here for you to collect, either.”

“I see that, now,” Ñolofinwë said, and it was only the wonder in his tone that kept Finno from throttling him for the grief that was also there. “When my brother said I had a son hiding upstairs, I thought he was trying to insult you.”

Despite himself, Finno let out a small snort of laughter. “Yes, we heard his response to that. Uncle Fëanáro has been surprisingly supportive.”

“He has had the opportunity to be,” Ñolofinwë said.

This time Finno could not begrudge him the distress in his voice. Instead, he felt the tiniest squirm of guilt. To assuage it, he explained how he had come to tell his cousins the truth, and how Maitimo had been the first to call him Finno; how Fëanáro had heard the nickname and everything had spiralled from there. Ñolofinwë listened without judgement. At the end, instead of saying anything sensible, he asked,

“May I help finish your hair?”

“Properly?” he asked, unable to help being suspicious.

Ñolofinwë offered him a crooked smile. “It is a long time since I have practised this style on another, so I cannot promise my work to be as fine as your cousin’s, but I will do my best.”

But it would, it seemed, be the style that Maitimo had started, marking him as a prince and not a princess, so he agreed. Tension crept into his frame as his father worked. It was not until he felt the familiar pattern start to take shape that he relaxed. His father, as promised, was completing the style Maitimo had started.

“As much as it grieves me that you hid this for me, I am glad to know you have not carried this burden alone,” Ñolofinwë said. He worked in silence for a few moments. Then, decisively, said, “Findekáno.”

Hope caught in his chest. “Atar?”

“I was wrong, the first time I named you. I did not know I was naming a son. I am hoping you will let me try again.”

There was more nervousness in his father’s voice than he was used to hearing. He mouthed the name his father had given him without sounding it aloud. Findekáno. Close enough to what he had been using that his nickname could remain in use amongst those who had earned it, and yet somehow fitting. He had taken command of his own destiny. It was right that his name should reflect that. Finwë, he thought, would approve also, for it touched on many themes they had discussed in their lessons together.

“Findekáno,” he agreed.

Behind him, Ñolofinwë let out a sigh of relief. “I am glad things are not so fractured between us that you would refuse this.”

“I was never ashamed of being your son.”

At that, his father hugged him, and he hugged his father back.

“Well! We have our work cut out for us. I will make appointments with the tailor and with local jewellers tomorrow. Hopefully my brother’s favour towards you will extend to use of his palanquin that you can return home without being seen in such a state. You may borrow my jewellery until you have your own, and I can see Makalaurë has been generous with his wardrobe.”

“I have jewellery at home,” Findekáno told him brightly. At his father’s surprise, his bright smile faded and he felt a sudden flush of embarrassment. “I am sure he was trying to spite you as much as support me, but Uncle Fëanáro made me several sets of jewellery and has gifted me more over the years, and Maitimo and Makalaurë both gave me things from their collections. And Grandfather commissioned some for me, also.”

“I see,” Ñolofinwë said, his expression unreadable. After several moments, he sighed. “Findekáno, do not take this the wrong way, for I am proud of you, but I do wish you had not put me in a position where I had to thank Fëanáro for such things.”

“If it is any comfort, he wasn’t polite about it,” Findekáno offered shyly. That startled a laugh from his father.

“It is Fëanáro. Of course he was rude about it.”

After some time, Ñolofinwë finished braiding Findekáno’s hair. When he was done, they examined his work in the large mirror Makalaurë had placed in the corner of his room. It was not as fine work as Maitimo’s braids, but Findekáno cherished it more, for it was a clear sign his father recognized him as his son and not his daughter. Ñolofinwë hummed, displeased. He plucked several decorative pins from his own hair and added them to Findekáno’s braids before nodding in satisfaction.

When at last they emerged from Makalaurë’s room, they found Maitimo and Makalaurë lurking not at all subtly in the hallway. Both of them brightened at the sight of Findekáno standing tall and proud beside his father. He told them his name joyfully, and both of them repeated it with beaming smiles.

When they asked Fëanáro for use of the palanquin, he agreed, but he then looked Findekáno in the eye and said,

“I am glad not to have to take you in, but if he does not hold to his word, I will. You will tell either myself or your grandfather if he gives you any trouble.”

“Fëanáro!” Ñolofinwë protested, before Findekáno could, and Fëanáro snapped back,

“You didn’t notice!”

A tense silence descended upon the group. It was not until the two of them were seated in the palanquin and they were safely under way that Findekáno risked admitting,

“Uncle Fëanáro guessed because he saw how I am with his sons. I am sure you would have, also.”

“And yet I did not,” Ñolofinwë said, sorrowfully. “I knew something was wrong, but I was convinced it was some bitter seed Fëanáro had planted. I failed you, Findekáno. I can only ask you to trust that I will not do so again.”

Once home, Findekáno took Ñolofinwë to his room and showed him the secret reserve of clothes and jewellery he kept. He was especially proud to show his father the golden hair-beads Finwë had given him as a prize for winning the sparring tournament he had organized. Ñolofinwë exclaimed in delight, first at the beads themselves, then at the news Findekáno was included in the training sessions Finwë had been running. He confessed then to the classes he had with Finwë to learn other things a nér must know. There was a dreadful, bittersweet smile on Ñolofinwë’s face when he asked,

“Fëanáro organized the classes for you, didn’t he?”

“He did. What does it matter? It was Grandfather who did the teaching. If you and Fëanáro are going to use me as something to fight over, I am taking my cousins and Grandfather and running away into the hills somewhere. The two of you can find something else to argue about.”

He watched the surprise flicker over his father’s face. He had not dared speak so bluntly to his father before. But then, for so long, they had been fighting over the amount of time he spent at Fëanáro's house, and before that Findekáno had not known himself well enough to speak for himself. He knew now. His father and uncle could bicker if they wished, but they would not make him part of it.

*

The next few weeks were a whirlwind of activity.

Finwë and Ñolofinwë led a petition to the Valar, begging them to change Findekáno’s body to his natural form. When they returned, both of them looked stunned.

“They said no.”

For a while, the three of them sat in silence. It had not occurred to them that the Valar might refuse such a request. But then Findekáno broke the silence and said,

“We are Noldor. We do not accept the world as it is. We make new things. I will make myself anew, even if the Valar will not.”

Surprise flickered over his father’s face before approval settled there, but Finwë just smiled and said,

“I would expect no less from you, Findekáno. You will have all the help I can offer in this.”

All the help of the High King turned out to be a great deal of help indeed. Those of the Noldor most skilled in herb-lore were called upon to find plants that might help balance his hormones; weavers and cloth-makers were put to the task of improving his binders; and any other elf with useful skills was called upon.

They spent, once again, hours at the tailor, but this time Findekáno delighted in the experience. His opinion mattered now. His wardrobe filled with robes and breeches and armour. His father doubled the size of his jewellery collection within a single month. The first time he wore his new jewellery to visit his cousins, Fëanáro snorted derisively and said,

“At least the idiot is trying to be a father now, even if he cannot tell the work of a skilled smith from an apprentice.”

“Atar is doing an excellent job,” Findekáno said firmly.

He watched the surprise flicker over Fëanáro's face. Very few people spoke back to Fëanáro, and few still did so with such steady confidence. Then he grimaced. If Findekáno did not know better, he would have thought the expression exaggerated he was distracted from the thought a moment later when Fëanáro spoke.

“I preferred your quarrelling when it was not in defence of Nolo.”

“Do not insult my father and I will have no reason to quarrel, Uncle. I do not want to argue with you, not after the support you showed me.”

Fëanáro's expression softened at that. Or perhaps, Findekáno thought, softened was not the right word, at least not by the standards of anyone but Fëanáro himself. But the irritation leeched from his expression and he gave a curt nod.

“I hope he knows you are acting as a son ought to,” he said, and they spoke of Ñolofinwë no more.

*

It was hard to believe how much Irissë had grown in the last couple of decades. It seemed like just last week she was half Findekáno’s height, but now she was up to his shoulders and asked endless questions about hunting. Ñolofinwë, with nothing but good intentions, named the leader of the all-nissi hunting group Findekáno had once ridden with and suggested that he could introduce her. Irissë had looked horrified at the very idea.

“Please tell me you didn’t try to marry her,” she begged him.

Oh, but Findekáno did love his sister. She had never known him as anything other than her brother and it did not even occur to her that he might have ridden with that group. He ignored his cringing father to reassure his sister that no, he had made no unwanted marriage proposals. Irissë then begrudgingly allowed that he could introduce her, provided he promised not to embarrass her.

“I will do my best,” he said solemnly. “But I am your older brother. It is my job to embarrass you at least some of the time.”

“Well,” Irissë sighed, with all the wisdom of a teenager, “you certainly do that.”

As he walked Irissë from the house, he contemplated how complete his change had been. None who looked at him would ever guess he had once been mistaken for a nís. Even if parts of his body could not be changed, most of him was in harmony with who he really was. His people saw him for who he really was. And that knowledge was something no one could ever take from him.


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
[NONE]