TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Tempest	faroffshores	2021-11-16	2021-11-16	1,331	1/1	6	37	6	292

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
General Audiences	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
[NONE]	Finarfin | Arafinwë, Fingolfin | Ñolofinwë, Fëanor | Curufinwë, Galadriel | Artanis, Finrod Felagund | Findaráto	Quenya Names, Darkening of Valinor, First Kinslaying (Tolkien), Finarfin-centric, i will make that a tag if i have to do it with my bare hands, Character Study

SUMMARY
The Darkening and First Kinslaying through the eyes of Finarfin and the aftermath.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
[NONE]


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
No one expects the darkness that falls like a sudden storm upon the land of Valinor, not truly. It is not darkness, not in the usual sense, but more than that. It is almost alive. Arafinwë shudders. He can almost see faces, waiting in the inky-depths.

He closes his eyes. When he opens them, they are gone, as if they had never been. He knows better, though.

They will always be waiting.

Arafinwë returns to Tirion with his children, though Eärwen was still in Alqualondë, celebrating with her family. They find the darkness there broken by torchlight, red and orange and yellow against the blackness, like tongues and eyes of Aule's Maiar.

As expected, Fëanáro is trying to whip the masses into a frenzy, his voice echoing over their heads, and nearly succeeding. Save for the fact Ñolofinwë is opposing him, loudly, as he always does. It nearly comes to blows.

It always does when Ñolofinwë and Fëanáro argue lately.

But, as Arafinwë always does, he plays peacemaker the best he can, and Artaresto alone aids him in this manner.

Turukano and Findarato, speak loudly against his half-brother and the rest of his sons are silent. Artanis, bright hair shining like a remnant of the darkened Laurelin, urges for the Noldor to return to the great lands of Endore. Angarato and Aikanaro are silent as well, but Arafinwë knows they agree with Artanis.

It escalates, as he feared it would.

Fëanáro and his sons swear an oath of blood and darkness and vengeance. He swears by Eru Allfather, and by the Everlasting Darkness. The Noldor's hearts are stirred, and they cry to be gone, to leave.

Arafinwë tries once more to keep the Noldor from acting in haste, but they drown his voice out with a great shout of disagreement, and so, he continues on. Arafinwë's house and folk are the hindmost of those that take the road. He does not want to leave, but he will not allow his people to be governed by someone as rash as Fëanáro, or even Ñolofinwë.

Then-

Swanhaven burns.

The water is red, and the blood runs through cracks in the cobbled street. Elulindo lays facedown in the water, floating near one of the great swanships. Arafinwe stops, looking at the- the body, in horror. Elulindo was like a brother to him. More of a brother than Fëanáro, more than even Ñolofinwë.

He feels sick, and his lips twist. His fingers are numb.

He feels numb.

The day (can it be called a day? when there is no cycling of the minglings?) gets worse and worse, especially when Findekano runs past him, runs into him. Arafinwe stumbles backward, eyes widened in shock and horror, as he sees his nephew's sword. It is bloodied, and Findekano's face is pale.

Arafinwe puts two and two together, and Findekano's face falls. It makes him feel sicker when he sees Artanis' sword bloodied too, and Findarato's.

Fëanáro's eyes gleam with a fell, fey light and he taunts Arafinwë as he tries to find what had happened. He always had been an easier target for Fëanáro's malice, the Noldo who looks like a Vanya and speaks like a Teler.

Arafinwe's eyes narrow, teeth bared and he does not answer.

Fëanáro is surprised, but masks it well.

Only a fool thinks the sea is not dangerous only because it is calm. Arafinwe thinks bitterly, as he turns, cloak billowing behind him, leaving Fëanáro to his madness as he returns to his children and their preparations.

A storm wrought by Uinen shakes and rocks the seas. Her weeping is as loud as the roar of the waters and it tears at his own heart, but he will go on, even the way is harder and harder, and the air gets colder and icier, like his own thoughts.

When the figure appears, power streaming off it, he knows it is no lesser Maia, but Namo Mandos himself. His words only confirm Arafinwe's own fears. That this will only end in fear and pain and darkness and blood.

Fëanáro obstinately insists on going on, but Arafinwe shakes his head, and his children look at him in surprise, in fear.

Findarato tries to keep him from leaving but he is not swayed, and he does the same, he tries to get them to return, but he knows, deep in his heart, that their hearts are set on the new lands of Endore and so he gives Findarato his ring, the one given to him when he came of age by his own father.

"It is a poor consolation," he says ruefully. He tries not to cry because he will miss them all. They nod, and he hugs them one last time, as each one feels like an eternity.

Then, he turns and goes. His boots crunch against the icy ground, as Fëanáro calls insults after him, but he ignores it. More and more of his people turn back with him, though through the haze of the pain and hurt, he barely realizes this.

The stars have come out once more, Varda's everlasting lights, silver pinpricks against the night sky, like they had shone at Cuiviénen. The walk goes on for an age, until the silver shining beam of the Mindon cutting through the mist, and he turns to go to the road that leads to Valmar, to Taniquetil.

He prostrates himself before the Valar on behalf of the Noldor who turned back. His face is calm and serene, though the pain and anger and grief swirl within him like one of the great Sea-storms.

They agree, that he is to be King of the Noldor. Who else is left? he thinks bitterly, though he rises, and bows, trying to keep himself from glaring or saying something incredibly risky but he turns to go, to return Tirion. As he passes beneath the white marble gate, it hits him.

Fëanáro is gone, truly gone. Nolofinwe went with him to keep him in check, and Lalwendë with him (she always preferred Nolofinwe more). Findis returned to Tanquetil with their mother.

Arafinwë is alone, again.

He is left behind, again. 

He will be made to clean their messes, again.

He is blamed for their mistakes, again. 

He thinks of Olwë, who was like a second father to him, of Nenalassë, who was like a second mother, of Eärwen - oh how is he supposed to face her ever again? The Teleri had accepted him as one of their own, but he could do nothing to stop his own people from attacking them.

He buries his face in his hands, tugging at his hair and finally lets the tears fall.

Arafinwë is crowned during the rising of the sun. The light, though harsher and dimmer than Laurelin’s lost fire, gleams and catches on his- on his father’s throne, in his hair, and on the crown that should never have come to him.

Not in any of the kindest twists of fate. But he sits on the throne, and he is struck by how strange it is, to be sitting here, as an adult and not a child indulged by his father and it hurts.

(He remembers when he was young, when he solved a diplomatic dispute that had gotten blown out of hand, that Finwë said he would be a good king.

He laughed at the time, even though the laughter scraped something tender in his chest. They both knew he would never be king.)

He never should have been king and it hurts. Findarato, Angarato, Aikanaro, Artaresto, Artanis, his bright shining children that had left, that he had left them.

He takes a breath, and quietly blinks back tears.

After a moment he looks up and he sees the people, his people now, watching him with fear and with worry on their faces and, no matter how much it hurts, Arafinwë will do what he always does, what he always has.

He will rebuild.

Even if it kills him.


CHAPTER 1
[NONE]