TITLE	AUTHOR	DATE PUBLISHED	DATE UPDATED	N° WORDS	N° CHAPTERS	N° COMMENTS	N° KUDOS	N° BOOKMARKS	N° HITS
Softest of tongues	eye_of_a_cat	2023-09-10	2023-09-10	7,765	1/1	29	63	20	567

RATING	WARNINGS	FANDOMS	
Mature	No Archive Warnings Apply	The Lord of the Rings - J. R. R. Tolkien, The Silmarillion and other histories of Middle-Earth - J. R. R. Tolkien

RELATIONSHIPS	CHARACTERS	ADDITIONAL TAGS
Celeborn/Galadriel | Artanis	Celeborn (Tolkien), Galadriel | Artanis, Celebrían (Tolkien), Elrond Peredhel, Saruman | Curunír, Gandalf | Mithrandir, Galathil (Tolkien)	Third Age, Doriath, Elf Culture & Customs, Cultural Differences, Noldor and Sindar issues, Noldor are slightly frightening, descriptions of non-serious injury, Sindarin, Quenya, Sapir-Whorf hypothesis as a metaphor for the pain at the heart of your marriage, Minor Elrond/Celebrian, Sea-longing (Tolkien), Lothlórien, Nenya is slightly frightening, Canon Compliant

SUMMARY
Galadriel and Celeborn, through the Third Age of Middle-earth.

There are ways to express the difference between you wanted and I wish you wanted in Quenya by adding the right affix. In Sindarin you must change the sounds of the verb itself, the feeling soaking into the substance of the word. What is the lenited form of grief, he thinks. What is the right declension for a yearning without a name.

CHAPTER 1 TITLE
Softest of tongues


CHAPTER 1 INITIAL NOTES
[NONE]


CHAPTER 1
To many things I’ve said the word that cheats
the lips and leaves them parted (thus: prash-chai
which means “good-bye”) 

[…]

To all these things I’ve said the fatal word,
using a tongue I had so tuned and tamed
that -- like some ancient sonneteer -- I heard
its echoes by posterity acclaimed.
But now thou too must go; just here we part,
softest of tongues, my true one, all my own....
And I am left to grope for heart and art
and start anew with clumsy tools of stone.

(Vladimir Nabokov, ‘Softest of Tongues’)

 

 

They say there is a witch in the golden wood. They say those who pass beyond Lothlórien’s borders will be lost in enchantment and never return, their forgotten bodies starving as their minds dance in dreams among the trees. 

The patrols of the Rohirrim sometimes ride as far as the southern banks of the Limlaith and wait there. Celeborn is watching some of them now - a line of a dozen or so staring out to the meadows beyond the river and the wood beyond that through a thin mist of rain. They will not see him, hidden as he is in a march-warden’s grey cloak. If he drew close enough he would be able to hear them talk of his wife, telling each other the tales they have heard, warning the younger ones to be careful, be careful, don’t set a foot on the land over the river or she’ll make sure you never return. 

The stories never mention that the witch in the golden wood has a husband. He wonders what stories might be told about him if they did. Maybe he would be her captive, a prince from a lost realm kept as some prize from a long-ago war. Maybe he would be her consort to strengthen her position among her people, for how else could Sindar and Silvan alike have been lured under her rule? Maybe he would be her steward, left to manage her realm while she dwells in a world of magic and myth. Maybe her soldier who will command armies at her wish. Maybe her servant who kneels at her feet and whispers his loyalty as he combs her golden hair. 

He is none of these things, and in some manner he is all of them. 

The riders turn and wheel back south, their bright cloaks like summer birds against the muted winter landscape. Celeborn waits until they have gone before he, too, goes to the river, presses his palms down into the mud of its banks and lets the cold water flow over his hands. Here at the edge of their realm Nenya’s influence fades, and the enchantments of the lady of Lothlórien sink into the stone and soil and dying leaves of Middle-earth.

They say there is a witch in the golden wood. They do not remember a time before she came here; they do not know that the golden wood is itself a gift, Doriath remade once again.

To the cold bright surface of the water he whispers the name he gave her: Galadriel. 

 

 

There was a time when he had only known peace. He was a prince of Doriath and there were no wars (there were, but they hadn’t reached him); there was no loss and no danger (there was, and there was); Galadriel was their guest, graceful and fair, walking among the flowers with her hand almost, almost touching his. It had not mattered that she was Noldor, or at least not to him. 

There was one afternoon in this time, a sleepy, sun-drenched afternoon, when he sat in the boughs of a willow tree, his back against the trunk, daydreaming of distant lands as dark arrows of fish darted in the stream below him. Then as if appearing from the air, a thrown pine cone he caught – and below, Galadhil grinning at him. “Your Noldor princess is looking for you.”

“She isn’t a princess.” He flexed the pine cone in his hand, feeling the give of the open scales, then threw it into the water where it bobbed gently in the current. 

“Well, I heard her father’s the High King of the Noldor in Valinor. And I think, if her father’s a king, that makes her a princess. Which I can’t believe you hadn’t thought of. Were you holding out for a queen?”

Celeborn stretched his arms above his head, slow in the late summer light. Even the day seemed to move more lazily down here by the stream. “They’re our guests.”

Galadhil raised an eyebrow. “Our guests.” 

“And what does that mean?”

“It means I have eyes. And ears. And I don’t believe our duties as hosts extend to meeting with them late at night to speak Quenya.”

The day suddenly seemed less warm. “Who did you tell?”

“Who said I told?”

Celeborn busied himself with climbing down from the tree, his face hidden in the shadows of leaves. “Thank you.” 

“It doesn’t mean someone else won’t. What are you thinking? Does she make you?”

What had he been thinking? Of spring leaves and golden futures, of endless songs, of her soft hands. Of how she had laid her fingertips light on his lips to teach him pronunciation, making him repeat the same sound again and again. “It’s interesting. Linguistically. That’s all.”

“Oh,” said Galadhil, “linguistically.”

“It’s a language.”

“Which is forbidden and you know well why.”

“Their language didn’t kill our kin and neither did she.” The confidence of youth, ill-worn as it was, brought a new strength to his voice. 

Quenya, forbidden Quenya, had become something different ever since he’d whispered to her at a dance that he would still very much like to learn it. It was hidden and secret, passed between them like contraband. Even before they ever touched they were exchanging words as soft-wrapped gifts. He’d learned to whisper old poems under his breath as they walked just out of hearing of a crowd, met with her in twilight glades to hear the differences between the nominative and illustrative cases. The threat of anger and of exile only sharpened the thrill of secrecy; he had been so young.

(And Thingol spoke still of the horrors the Noldor had done, and Celeborn bowed his head with the others, knowing that was not Galadriel. And Galadhil spoke later to him alone saying it’s not just the slaughter, it’s the arrogance, they don’t even see us, be careful, be careful. And Celeborn turned away, knowing that was not Galadriel.)

Once he’d poured her wine at a banquet, leaning close enough to murmur words that only she could hear, holding the double consonant sounds just right: lamma, anna, atta. Once they’d almost been caught together by the lakeside and she’d pulled him down with her hidden behind the curving prow of a fishing boat, insisting that he continue, shaking in silent laughter as he’d mouthed the words only yards away from passing footsteps. Hara máriessë. Minë lambë lá ná farëa. 

“Their language can get you both exiled,” Galadhil said. “She can get you both exiled. Noldor don’t care but you must care. The king would make an example out of you.”

“He would not.”

“Will you risk it?”

“You’re being ridiculous.”

“You are. I’m looking out for you. She won’t, what’s she done?”

“She and her brothers are all welcome here,” Celeborn said, resenting the defensive tone in his own voice. “She took a Sindarin name.”

“Because it’s from you. It doesn’t make her Sindar.”

“I wouldn’t want her to be Sindar. I want her as she is.” His own tongue saying I want her was a new truth chipped out of him. 

“Well,” Galadhil said, “whether she’s Artanis or Galadriel, your Noldor princess is looking for you so you’d better go and find her. We wouldn’t want to displease the Noldor, would we?” 

 

 

Many years have passed since they were so young. The king is long dead and Galadhil too and Doriath itself is ruined and gone beneath the waters. Most of the Noldor are dead or departed over the sea and their great stone cities are moss-grown ruins where only birds sing in the evening. He alone is left; he and his Noldor princess, still fighting the long defeat.

 

 

Sometimes he hates the ring she wears. 

Not always, not often. He can love what it has given to them: safety and refuge, Doriath remade in the golden dream of Lothlórien, even as the darkness around them gathers and Arda slowly fades. He can be thankful that she bears it still for who else would deserve such a thing, who else might be strong enough to carry it. He can accept what was never his to refuse.

Still, sometimes, he hates it. He resents even the way it presses into his hand when her fingers weave through his and sometimes a small whispered part of him even wishes (he does, he does) that it had never come to her. For Lothlórien it may be refuge and safety and haven and hope, but for her it is a burden almost beyond the bearing. 

Nenya is the Ring of Water but within it is held adamant, hardest of all stones, the lodestone that will always face the right course even when the stars are dark. Like adamant she will not yield; like adamant she will remain true. He finds her once (and twice, and again) huddled alone on their talan high in the trees with her arms wrapped around her legs and her face buried in her knees, repeating this to herself over and over and over again. 

To wear a ring like hers is to be alone. 

The first time this happens, in the absence of anything he can think of to help and the knowledge that nothing would lighten her burden anyway, he gathers her in his arms and repeats Quenya verb conjugations. Calë, cála, calë, caluva, caltanë, acálië. Váquet, váquetë, váqueta, váquetë,  váquetuva. More and more of them until she calms, and then relaxes against him, and then starts to correct his Doriathrin accent (“all the vowels, remember”) with the first ghost of a smile on her face. 

 

 

Another time. A happier one, this, for there is dancing and music and joy, feasts laid out on long tables, and Celebrían there bright and shining still. This is earlier, after Isildur and his sons were killed but before the darkness began to truly gather itself (perhaps, before they noticed; perhaps again, before they allowed themselves to). And so here is a great celebration for their guests, and here is Celebrían, home again.

Celeborn’s memory does not fail with his daughter; rather it is too sharp, too much. Sometimes he remembers her in times and places she could never have been. Certainly, though, she is here in this one, dancing in a spinning whirl of silver as Elrond stands beside him.

“Marriage suits you,” Celeborn says.

“Well. I mean.” A gesture towards Celebrían with his empty goblet. “How can it not?”

“So why don’t you dance?”

“I’m postponing the point where I look ridiculous for not knowing the steps. These Silvan dances are so fast. Do you really know them all?”

“Of course.”

“I should learn.”

“You should learn.”

The dance ends and the dancers bow to their partners, and Celebrían comes over to fetch Elrond, rolling her eyes. “You’ll dance the next one with me,” she says. “My parents are leading.”

It is expected that the Lord and Lady of Lorien should dance together, enough so that it’s a duty as much as anything else. But he doesn’t mind. They stand before the two lines of dancers and bow to each other and he remembers as he always does being the first to ask her to dance in Doriath, dared on by Galadhil and their friends.

They move so well together now it barely requires thought, their feet exact in the beat of the drums, and he lifts her and guides her and then steps back as she spins, clapping to keep her time. Four and five and six and – he catches her again to whirl her down between the two lines, each of them turning the next dancer, and then each other, and then the next, and then each other, always returning to her. Each in turn until they reach the end of the line and he spins Celebrían and then Galadriel for one final time, then stands beside Elrond clapping time for Galadriel as she whirls with her arms above her head, her golden hair a shimmering flying veil.

Elrond, laughing through mock terror, leans over and mouths Help. 

“Easier than it seems,” Celeborn says. “She has the hard part. You mark time for her and keep her steady.”

 

 

Afterwards walking home under the trees Galadriel is laughing and light on her feet. He has had little time alone with her all that day; they have been constantly needed by an array of their people and their guests, as is often the way of it. But now, briefly and blissfully, it is just the two of them.

It seems even then in these first centuries after the that the world is balanced on a sharp edge, bound to fall one way or the other. On one side, a future of dances and joy and peace, finally peace. On the other, all the news that Elrond and Celebrían have brought them: the first smoke tendrils of a growing evil, an Enemy who will rebuild his power, a future of ruin and war. Here with her now he only wants to think of the better future, a world of golden summer. Another child, maybe.

Someone’s voice calls in the distance. Her name at first, and then his. And he says “Ah, well, it couldn’t last,” but she says “No” and takes his wrist and pulls, hard, off the lantern-lit path and through the woods and down to the stream, where he lets her lead him silently in a loop back under the bridge to the little cove beneath by the waterfall that cascades down. 

“I am tired of being interrupted,” she whispers, her voice almost hidden in the noise of the crashing water. Above them on the bridge, still just about audible, are the sounds of feet, and voices, shouts and songs, their people and their guests drifting back towards home before the sun rises. 

He remembers Doriath, the words they spoke hidden and secret; feels the resonance of memory in her smile. 

“If we wait long enough,” he whispers back, “maybe they’ll all go?”

She laughs, biting her lip to muffle it, and he puts his fingers to her lips and says “Shhhh, they’ll hear,” and it makes her laugh even more. He’ll tease her but he does not want to go back either, and share her with the duty and polite pleasantries that no doubt await. 

In Doriath, in those early days, he had not even dared to touch her. Now he can make up for it a hundredfold in a hundred ways: his lips on the tip of her ear, his thigh between her legs. She mouths a silent plea for him to continue and he kisses her, soft and then less so, and presses harder against her, and she steps back and back with him until the spray at the edge of the falling water soaks his hand as it covers her hair. “Wait,” he says, “I’ll -” But she’s already leaning back into it. 

“Hold me like this,” she says. And he does, cradling her head in his hand and tipping her back, and back, until the water pours over her face and runs in streams down her hair. This stream from the mountains should be cold even at this time of year, but there’s a softness and a mildness to it now, a golden mist that seems to shroud her.

Her eyes are half-closed, as if she is dreaming and lost to him. “Please,” she says.

In his hands she is like a spirit sculpted from living water. The waterfall soaks through her dress, runs in plaited streams over the circlet she wears, leaves beaded jewels on her eyelashes. Her back and her hips are cool as stone but between her thighs she is warm and soft and yearning for him, and his hand coaxes from her a mewling cry like a hunting bird. 

“What would you have of me?” he whispers, and then replaces his lips on hers with his fingertips, easing them into her mouth, watching her shiver at the taste of her own desire. “What would you have of me?”

“Anything,” she says.

He’s sure she believes it and less sure it’s true, but for tonight she can have him as she wishes. He turns her against the smooth wall of the rock and lifts her up, holding the weight of her between his hips and his hand as he sinks himself deep into her. The spray of the waterfall is still pattering against her face. On her hand, Nenya the Ring of Water surrounds them with its soft, gold glow. 

In the morning he wakes before she does. Her hair, still damp from the waterfall, is fanned out across her pillow. She sleeps with her hands clasped up by her shoulder, the glint of her ring almost hidden. She is at peace.

His muscles ache a little from the night before. There is a soreness at his side and when he looks down he sees a long, jagged cut running from his ribcage across to hip. Blood, watered down from the waterfall or his own soaked-through clothes, has dried into mottled patterns beside it. It has stopped bleeding for the most part now and is crusted with dark scabs rough to the touch when he presses it with his fingertips. As he gets to his feet parts of this break and the blood beads scarlet again. 

Nenya is sharper than ice.

He covers the red-smudged sheets and dresses briskly but quietly so as not to disturb her rest. 

 

 

Sometimes he sees her as wrapped in water, a spirit more than wholly elven. She is deep enough to drown in and wild enough to tear down kingdoms. Today she is a blizzard: a whirling storm, a thousand tiny, flying blades.

She rarely takes off the ring and he never asks. Would never ask. He is not a Ring-bearer, he does not carry the weight of Middle-earth on his shoulders. Under her power Lothlorien is protected and hidden from the scattered evils that still cover Middle-earth. Sometimes it makes her soft as spring rains, gentle as the morning mist. Sometimes, it does not.

He can feel her anger ripple in the silk waves of her dress now as she paces back and forth with her bare feet silent on the honey-gold wood. She is tense and cold and every line of her face is a shard. He thinks of ice that can break the boughs of winter trees, ice that can split open boulders. He says, “Galadriel.”

She turns sharp to see him. “Have you come to argue with me too?”

“No.” Slow and careful he closes the space between them, and when he touches her arm the silk of her dress is cold. “Mithrandir wished you to know it was a thought and no more. They were only suggesting all alternatives, I don’t believe -”

“These rings were made by the elves,” she says. “Círdan can do as he chooses but I will not hand over our only protection to the Istari.”

“I know.”

A careful look, sharp as a blade. “And you? Would you prefer I did not carry it?”

He says “No”, and he says it without thinking, and therefore it’s true. He wouldn’t want Nenya taken from her; it’s protection and safety and preservation of their golden land, and who else but she should bear it. But if he allowed himself to think for longer, he might wish - not that it was otherwise - but that there was some way to unthread the ring’s power and burden from her, to have a Galadriel who was not also Nenya. 

Or perhaps he wouldn’t.

That night she is ice still, her nails a flurry of sharp crystals against his skin, her grip a clear and crushing thing. “Be calm,” he says when she takes his face between her hands. But she is distant; she is not Galadriel of Lorien now, she is Artanis of Fingolfin’s company crossing the Helcaraxë, no doubt an ice-axe in her hand, no doubt a crowd following in her wake. He can almost see her, the beautiful and terrible light in her eyes just visible through the whirl of a blizzard. He is not sure she can see him from wherever she is.

I would bring you home, he thinks. Let me bring you home. And he tries, whispering his own loyalty to her against her skin, coaxing her into melting softness. She is taut and tense and spanned with muscles over her ribs, tender and pillow-soft at the swell of her inner thighs.  She runs her hands through his hair and arches her hips up for his mouth. She belongs here beneath the trees with him in this peaceful land of sanctuary, for it is hers, and he tells her, it is hers. 

She tastes sweet and sharp as always - but today it is the sweetness of frozen berries, the sharpness of winter. 

 

 

“It sings to me,” she tells him.

“Sings to you?”

“In a sense.” She turns the ring on her finger as if it is a light and easy thing. “It sings of the sea.” 

A cruel burden, this. She may not go to the sea; she has rebelled against the Valar once, and refused their amnesty a second time, and now she must stay on Middle-earth until she has earned a new kind of pardon. And so she wears this ring and guards Middle-earth against their enemy, and it gives her the power she has turned from and it sings to her of the sea that bars her way home. 

This morning those she has called to Lothlórien met to discuss the growing shadow. She, and the other Ring-bearers, and the Istari, and Glorfindel, sent back from the halls of Mandos by the Valar themselves. Celeborn - having no rings, having never set foot in Valinor, having nothing but golden woods and books he’s collected from ages gone by - is not among their number. Glorfindel had called him her right hand and bowed to him anyway as if he might feel lessened by this. 

Now she’s sitting with him here, far away from Caras Galadhon and all its guests, on a carpet of wild thyme under the shade of willows. They are alone but she will not speak of the White Council’s discussions with him yet, not until they are agreed - and nor does he expect her to. Instead he wraps his arms around her waist where she kneels and says “You have spent too long around that council table.”

“I know.” She leans her head back against his shoulder.

“It’s a burden.”

“It’s a duty.” But she breathes easier like this, held against him. “I wish I could lay it down sometimes. No. I wish that I did wish to, though. I wish that I could want such a thing.”

She is Noldor and she is a Ring-bearer and what is he, truly? Her right hand. He gathers the soft silk of her dress in his fingers as he eases it up her thighs, and she sighs, satisfied. “Forget for a while, then,” he says. Let him be her right hand if it is what she wishes; let him guide her, let him bear arms for her, let him steady her, let him bring her pleasure. 

She needs him, when the weight of her ring wears on her. She needs his lips to bruise her with kisses, his hands to tease out her keening cries of pleasure, his arms to lower her down gentle onto the grass studded with white chamomile flowers that nod up at the sun. She needs his body fitted against hers so perfectly, so well, she needs his voice to name her Galadriel, for beneath all her silken softness she is hard and determined as adamant. And it’s only when her twisting hand grabs his and the edge of her ring digs sharp and painful into his finger that he remembers it’s there.

Afterwards she lies with her head on his bare stomach and they discuss matters of defence: their own, and the greater world’s. They discuss the growing darkness in what was once Amon Lanc, the thoughts of the Istari on its nature, and the need to send more messengers to Thranduil in the northern woods. They disagree over how rapidly to increase their own forces (she favours more and faster, he favours fewer commanders trained more carefully so as to build their strength without taking from the wardens, and his arguments win in the end). 

She wishes his thoughts on where the forces of the Enemy might seek to grow their power – to corrupt the men of the East? to strike outwards to Rhun? – and how Mithrandir might best strengthen them to resist him. On this they talk of famine and the desperate need it can bring, and he speaks of irrigation systems he read of in some of the few books saved from Numenor. A people who do not fear starvation will stand stronger against a darkness that whispers with promises. 

She holds his hand throughout all this, light in hers, her thumb absently drawing circles on his palm. 

 

 

The darkness grows. In the mountains, orcs gather, their numbers ever increasing. A realm of sorcery and terror grows in the north. A plague spreads over the kingdoms of men and the legacy of Numenor falters and fails. Then the dwarves wake a Balrog in the mines, and some of the elves of Lorien flee south to Edhellond, or west to the sea, or to places whose names he does not know. For a time it seems even Lothlórien might fall but they hold it strong.

In the years when things fade and hope presses on through tears, it becomes clear that the Enemy thinks them a threat. A dark, bleak cloud seeps from what was once Amon Lanc, up through the forest that was once Eryn Galen and is now a dark thing of spiders and fear, out towards the Anduin and the borders of Lothlórien, where it is met by a golden shimmering mist that holds it at bay. 

Galadriel’s White Council draws together what knowledge it can to fight back the enemy: with sword when it is needed, and with hope and strength and courage. Middle-earth grows darker; more of the elves leave its shores, and those who remain draw ever further into their havens and enclaves. Orcs block the passes in the mountains and even Imladris grows further from them, more isolated, messages exchanged rarely, visiting kin coming few and hidden and secret through the few paths that remain. 

Against the dark the light shines brighter.

Galadriel’s burden is ever greater year by year and yet she does not weaken. To their people, he knows, it seems that she draws strength from the fight itself and her endless, ceaseless part in it. Sometimes she will go to her Mirror and look down into whatever it shows her, and while he will never look at its surface he sometimes waits with her at a distance, watching her lips move soundless as she stares down into its depths. Sometimes she will stay for days, silent, looking out towards the east, expressionless and unnoticing when he comes to sit beside her, her hand all but stone when he takes it in his. Her blue unseeing eyes shine with the light of the Trees and within them he imagines some battle fought deep in her mind, a dance back and forth, a clash of warring blades. 

And there is still her White Council, surviving often in briefly-exchanged messages, hastily collected information and arguments. 

“Saruman still desires that I had given him my ring,” she says once as they lie together in the first light of morning, birds singing in bright melodies in the trees beyond. 

This has been discussed before. It is true, he has little doubt. “Was that the entirety of the message he sent you?”

“He is sure the Enemy’s ring is gone, swept down to the sea.”

“And you?”

“No.”

She is confident and he thinks, in this, she is likely correct. The elves have dug ancient things from the sandy banks of the Anduin: pots and carved stones, the bronze hilt of a sword from a long-forgotten battle, all older by far than the ring. He imagines it covered by layers of mud and silt, sinking slowly ever down towards the foundations of Arda. 

There is a sickness inside him at the thought of this. It shivers down the length of his spine.

He pulls her against him so that her beautiful hair is soft on his chest and kisses her and she’s already moving, all hunger and gold, kneeling over him with her thighs bracketing his hips. But her eyes as she looks down at him are too bright still, bright as the ring that flickers on her hand – and when he speaks it is as if she does not hear at all.

His own carelessness, really.

For now he lets it be, keeps kissing her and feels the curves of muscle like marble in her back. It can be pleasurable like this. It can be intensely pleasurable, indescribably pleasurable; it can be enough to make him forget anything else in the world but her and the haven of their golden wood. Her hands are soft at first and her lips are kind and she has no difficulty in rousing all she wants from him. He kisses her breasts and licks a slow and teasing circle around a nipple, feels her hands on his shoulders tighten their grip as they hold him in place (she is strong, she is strong). He lets the force of her mind hit him in a wave of sense and longing. 

She holds nothing back from him like this and at the start it is wonderful and he craves more of it and more of her, all of what she wants, all of her pleasure in having him give it (as he does without hesitation, everything, everything). But the force of her mind is like an ocean rising to crash down upon him and her hands carry the feel of foam-tipped waves. 

He thinks of Beleriand sinking down beneath the sea, how it must have crashed over the land, swallowing forest and river and city and pasture all alike; he thinks of the tales of Numenor, its hills collapsing into the great wave. The light in her eyes has become a blazing, burning thing tearing at him. He feels his own thoughts torn apart by the current, the wave still rising, rising.

“Galadriel,” he says. 

She does not hear. She is lost far away in some place or absence of place that he cannot even imagine.

“Galadriel,” he says again, and then “Stop,” but the soft sound of Sindarin “daro”  is lost in the roar. Quenya is sharper: “Á hauta, Galadriel, Galadriel -”

She blinks as if wakened from a dream and the wave falls back into calm. He watches the horror slowly spread on her face, her hand lift away from his shoulder (red already with blood spilled beneath the skin; it will bruise later).

“Don’t be troubled,” he says.

She cradles his head in the weave of her joined hands, presses her forehead down against his. “Ávatyarë nillo,” she says quietly, and then again in Sindarin: “Goheno nin.”

“There is nothing to forgive,” he says again, and as she pulls up and away from him his hands catch her waist and hold her firm. “No, stay. Please.” And he eases the tensed armour of her back and shoulders to softness with his circling hand, pulls her down again to kiss her light and tempting at the corner of her mouth. “It’s all right,” he says. “It is, it is,” and she settles back into him with the comfort of their bodies long moulded into familiarity with each other. 

(When she reaches for him again, he closes his hand over her ring.)

 

 

She speaks of the West, more and more. She speaks of the brightness of Tirion and the jewelled shores of Alqualondë. She speaks of her parents still there beyond the sea and of the playmates of childhood and the companions of youth who had not followed them over the ice. She muses too on Glorfindel and what he has told them about elves returning from the halls of Mandos. Perhaps her brothers will be there, she says. Perhaps his.

He has no words for this.

She has always spoken of Valinor, even in the days when they were young and walked together beneath the trees in Doriath. In these later years it seems more with sorrow than fondness. Sometimes she lists the names of those she travelled with and he hears the litany of names and hears unspoken the fates that befell them. She is not the only one left of those who made that journey but she is one of a spare few, now, a dwindling and saddened number. 

“There are forests,” she says. “You would love them so. Forests where the trees do not age and die this way.”

They are speaking in Quenya, which is appropriate both for what she describes and the way she describes it. In Quenya each piece of a word is a clear thing with a single meaning. They assemble like shards into a greater whole, a new creation sharp and perfect. But in Sindarin, words are constantly changing. Sounds soften and blur and move, shifting around each other; a new thing is not an addition but an alteration, and each sentence the result of meanings wearing away at earlier forms like rain on softening stone. 

“I don’t know who I would be, there,” he says; he who has known nothing other than Middle-earth, its trees that die, its fading glory. “I don’t know what there could be of me that is not part of here.”

She looks down, but does not leave the subject alone as she used to. “If it is true we would fade even in our victory then would you be content to withdraw to a kingdom of echoes? Quieter than birdsong, fainter than mist?”

“If you were there.”

They both know she would not be. 

“Are birdsong and mist so terrible?” he says, pouring her wine (it is sharp and clear, the faint orange-pink of a sunset). How else to explain? All the languages he knows, all the histories he can recall, the knowledge of distant lands and the crafts of long-dead kingdoms, and here he stumbles over how to say anything at all. He does not know the pieces to assemble his sorrow in Quenya nor the form to shape them in Sindarin.

 There are ways to express the difference between you wanted and I wish you wanted in Quenya by adding the right affix. In Sindarin you must change the sounds of the verb itself, the feeling soaking into the substance of the word. What is the lenited form of grief, he thinks. What is the right declension for a yearning without a name.

 

 

Losing Celebrían is the worst thing, the most terrible thing, the thing that for a time feels like all the sorrows he has ever known pulled together into a single, sharp strike. To learn that she is taken; and then that she is found but gravely injured; then to see her himself, lying in a bed in Imladris, a woman grown with her own sons and daughter around her but so small and drawn into herself that he remembers singing her to sleep as a child, when she worried about dark things in the shadows. 

She heals but does not. Most of a year passes and she stays this distant, faded, pained creature that no words nor song of his can fully soothe, not any more. And then one day she comes to sit beside him by the river, and she says “I keep remembering the stories Mother told me of the West,” and he knows by the far-seeing look in her eyes and the new peace that comes over her that he has lost her.

They all go to wish her farewell when the ship sails. Elrond weeps, and the twins and Arwen hold each other, but Galadriel remains still as steel, staring out at the sea for long after the ship itself has disappeared from their view. 

It is a sad, quiet journey home. 

“It is possible,” Galadriel says as they ride by the Gladden Fields on the last leg of their return, “that if the enemy’s ring should be destroyed, then the Three will be freed to heal all the hurts of Middle-earth.” She speaks as if telling a story, as if these are the first words of some tale to come.

Celeborn’s breath clouds in the winter air. Their horses’ hooves are soft and muted on the grassy ground of a long-overgrown road. “It is possible.”

“But you don’t believe it.”

He has spent long years studying this with the Istari, trying to find anything, anything that might bring them more hope than they have. She knows all this. “No,” he says.

“All we can ever do is fight the long defeat.”

She is turned away from him and he thinks she might be seeking the first sight of Lothlórien, still far distant from them. But she is not. She is looking out over the marshes, clumps of reeds and flag-iris spanning leagues out before and behind them, and then beyond them the great river and the banks where Isildur fell after another ring slipped from his hand. 

 

 

He stands before the basin of her Mirror as she pours water from a tall silver ewer, filling it to the brim. Though they are still in Caras Galadhon this place is hers, not his; Mithrandir has stood here more often than he has, and Elrond, and the others. He never asks what she shows them, or why, or whether it is her wish or theirs that they see it. He waits until it is over, and then in the evening he sits beside her and they watch the sun set over the mountains. 

But this time is different. This time there are eight travellers seeking haven within their realm, and Mithrandir has fallen; this time, there is a gold ring around the neck of a halfling who already seems worn down by a greater burden than any could bear. This time, she has asked him to come to her Mirror and see what it might show him. 

“It cannot be a guide to our actions,” she warns him as the ripples still and he wonders if she had once believed otherwise. “The things it shows may not come to pass.”

“Do they, sometimes?”

She does not answer. On her hand, Nenya catches the moonlight and shines like a captured star. 

The water’s surface clouds and then clears. He is looking down through the bare fire-blackened boughs of trees. Doriath, he thinks at first, for he remembers this: the burning, the screams, the dark figures of soldiers in lines fanned out through the trees, searching and slaughtering. But these soldiers are orcs, and this is Lothlórien.

It is a terror beyond words - almost beyond thought. It is as if a great fist seizes his heart and turns him all to stone.

And then the mirror darkens and clears again. This time he sees Caras Galadhon once again in what he understands to be victory, from the banners and ribbons hung from the trees. The mallorns are dying, though, their golden leaves faded to a pale, mudlike grey. The ribbons on the trees are tattered. The ground is saturated with muddy water, seeping up through the grasses and pooling in footprints. And the people are there, still, but they seem somehow lesser than the green growth around them. Their grey cloaks seem to disappear into the dusk even to his eyes. This is victory, for the elves: to fade into the land itself, to become a folktale for mortal children. 

The mirror clouds and then clears, a third time.

Here all is bright. The mallorns grow tall into an endless blue sky, and Caras Galadhon shines. Here is victory, too, but this time a victory celebrated by vast, cheering crowds, by music, by baked chestnuts in his palm almost too hot to hold, and beside him Arwen laughs and teases him for passing them from hand to hand. 

And there too is Celebrían. Celebrían healed and light and smiling, Celebrían home again. 

He thinks, oh -

The mirror shows him another part of this still-bright world. A road, a great paved road stretching out as far as he can see through lands of rich fields and great forests, clear rivers, flourishing towns and villages of all the peoples of Middle-earth. He rides on a white horse at the head of hundreds and beside him is Galadriel, glorious and shining bright, so beautiful it is almost painful to look directly at her. She wears a white cape and a silver crown that glints in the sun, and on her hand as she raises it is a ring that is not Nenya.

All is perfect, here. The world is just as she wishes it. 

The gold glints on her ring. There is a sharpness to her now, he sees – a strangeness. Behind them are soldiers, he realises. They are leading an army but who is there left still to fight? Who would dare rise against her, who would question the queen who rules all of Middle-earth?

The soldiers are chanting her name. It is no longer Galadriel. 

He lifts his head from the Mirror and she is smiling at him sadly. “You see, then,” she says. 

“Is this what you fear?”

“Not enough.” She dips a hand into the water but it is only water again, falling down from her fingertips. 

“You will not yield,” he says. “You will stay true.” And taking her still-wet hands in his, he repeats her name: “Galadriel, Galadriel.”

 

 

Their victory comes in spring on a cold and brittle day, winter sharpening its last claws against Lothlórien. The snow falls softly and silent and Galadriel goes out to stand on the empty lawns, her boots covered to the ankle, her face turned upwards into the white flakes that spiral slowly down. 

They feel the shudder as the enemy’s work is broken apart. They know what has happened before word even reaches her. And there is much that remains, and there are battles to fight and towers to tear down ahead of them still, but on that day it can wait. On that day, he goes out to stand with her in the snowfall, as silent as she is, and feels how gently each flake settles on his hands. 

Later come partings and gladness, and sorrow and joy.  Later comes Arwen’s wedding and a crowned king of Gondor once again. Later comes the destruction of Dol Guldur at the hands of the Galadhrim, and Amon Lanc stands once again free of orcs and darkness. Later comes Saruman, again, now a pitiful and spiteful figure in rags, hissing at Galadriel: “And what ship will bear you back across so wide a sea? A grey ship, and full of ghosts.” Later comes the mist over Lothlórien fading like a sigh.

(“May your doom be other than mine,” he tells Aragorn, “and may your treasure remain with you to the end.”)

 

 

He does not go with her to the Havens. He cannot bear to watch another ship depart. 

There is a feast for her the night before she leaves. Elves are keenly practiced at blending celebration with sorrow, and for this most of all. Tonight, it goes on late into the evening with stories and songs, a way to grieve and to laugh and to remember together. It will likely last until after the sun rises too, and well into the next day. He listens to the laments for her and wishes he had words for them himself. 

Others will follow her over the sea, he knows. Many at first, and then fewer in years to come, and then one day none at all. It is not a thing hidden, but neither is it a thing discussed for it is never possible to know when the sea-longing will come to anyone. Perhaps next year the call of Valinor deep within a soul might become great enough that they will give up everything, find themselves able to leave behind all the world they have ever known and seek the sea. Perhaps tomorrow. Perhaps never. 

In a moment between songs he takes her hand and they leave the table for a while together. They descend down the ladders and curving stairs that wrap around the great trees, down to the ground below where the lamplight barely reaches, and walk together by the banks of the Celebrant. For a while – an hour, perhaps, or more – they speak only of Doriath, in a fond familiar way as though they had left it behind mere days before. 

 

 

There should be a thousand goodbyes, one for each last thing he wishes to say to her. But in the end there is only one. He stands by her horse and the crowds around her draw back, leaving them an island in the middle of the green lawns covered with the silver-gold blooms of elanor. 

In Sindarin – not the Sindarin spoken here, but the Doriathrin of his youth - she tells him that she will be there waiting beyond the sea so long as the sea still stands between them. That if he should ever make the voyage he will find her there. That if he should not, then when the world is broken and remade and the lands that lie beneath the wave are lifted up again, they will walk together once again in Doriath under the boughs of golden trees. 

In Quenya, he says: Namárië. 


CHAPTER 1 FINAL NOTES
Thank you for reading! All comments, kudos, and general nice thoughts sent out into the ether are really appreciated. I started this story as a few scenes I wanted to get out of my head and into words and it ended up writing itself from there.

Some notes on the story followed by some notes on language specifically:

* Celeborn being from Doriath here: this is I know probably not the latest version of Tolkien’s thinking, but I find him most interesting this way. I’ve been vaguer about early Third Age in this story so I didn’t have to make exact decisions about who came to Lothlórien when.

* Saruman wanting Galadriel’s ring (in the same way that Círdan gave Narya to Gandalf) isn’t canon but is I feel the sort of thing he probably would have tried, at least once. Saruman and Galadriel not liking each other is absolutely canon though, as is the “what ship will bear you back” line he says to her after Sauron’s defeat.

* Celeborn’s line to Aragorn, “may your treasure remain with you to the end” – In earlier LOTR drafts there’s an epilogue in which Sam is talking to his daughter about the story, and she says this line is about Galadriel: “he knew that Lady Arwen would stay, but that Galadriel would leave him. I think it was very sad for him.” And then she goes on to compare it to Sam’s sorrow after Frodo left on the same ship.

* This is also why I wanted it ambiguous as to Celeborn going to Valinor. The only canonical source as far as I know is the LOTR prologue, which implies that he probably did but “there is no record of the day when at last he sought the Grey Havens.” Sam in that epilogue is quite relaxed about it (very much “he’s got his trees, he’s happy, he can go when he’s ready!”) but I think Celeborn’s words to Aragorn suggest that it was at least at that point uncertain to him whether or not he would, and that this was as Elanor says a very sad thing.

* I went with ‘Galadhil’ over ‘Galathil’ as the spelling for Celeborn’s brother; I've seen both but the first looks more consistent with ‘Galadhon’.

* Galadriel’s name in the vision Celeborn sees in the mirror: I think a Galadriel who took the One Ring would become something else. And I liked linking the idea that Celeborn gave her that name, that it’s linked somehow to Middle-earth, to Doriath, and to him, with her words after she turns down the ring from Frodo: “I pass the test. I will diminish, and go into the West, and remain Galadriel.”

 

Language points:

 

* Not a linguist here nor an expert in these languages, I just find them interesting. I’ve relied heavily on Parf Edhellen, Ambar Eldaron and this page on Doriathrin.

* Celeborn’s musings on how you add/alter meaning between them is because Quenya is agglutinative and Sindarin is inflected.

* Hara máriessë is ‘Stay in happiness’, and Minë lambë lá ná farëa is ‘One language is never enough’ (with thanks to ‘Omniglot.) Calë is ‘to shine’, váquetë is ‘to refuse’.

* Ávatyarë nillo (Quenya) and Goheno nin (Sindarin) are both ‘forgive me’. Using ‘nillo’ there rather than ‘ni’ (me) was my own decision as in Quenya, the thing forgiven seems to be expressed in the ablative: forgive-from-me. In Quenya possibly & in Sindarin probably, there is a sense of to forgive that is between a superior and inferior and a sense that is between equals; gohena used here is forgiveness between equals.

* Doriathrin as a distinct version of Sindarin: I love the idea of it and what it says about Doriath being so shut off and protected. Tolkien at one point in HoME describes it as sounding to the ears of others just old. Of Turin: “Though a Man, he spoke like an Elf of the Hidden Kingdom, which is as though a Man should now appear, whose speech and schooling until manhood had been that of some secluded country where the English had remained nearer that of the court of Elizabeth I than of Elizabeth II.” It drops the final vowel a lot; but I kept it in daro because the -o there signals the imperative.

* With Quenya and Sindarin being so distinct I am fascinated by how well communication worked in First Age Beleriand! How well did people even understand each other? Anyway, too much thinking about language lessons and forbidden languages is how I got here!